2024 Reinstein Set – Packet 1
Tossups
1. One painting by this artist shows a man looking through a large peephole, holding up
the shutter with his finger. That painting by this artist, which shows most of the man’s face,
is I Can See the Whole Room!. Another painting by this artist allows the viewer to see a
woman’s head, shoulder, and hand. That woman, who is crying, has blue and black hair.
Another painting by this artist is a diptych [DIP-tik] in which each panel shows a fighter
plane. Like many of this artist’s works, that one features a speech bubble, and its title is
written above the exploding plane. Name this pop artist of Drowning Girl and Whaam!.
Answer: Roy (Fox) Lichtenstein
2. Each component of the del operator is this operation. Both Wronskian and Jacobian
[yah-KOH-bee-un] matrices are generated by applying versions of this operation. This
operation is used to evaluate limits in L’Hopital’s [loh-pee-tahl’z] rule. Tests named for the
“first” and “second” versions of this operation are used to determine whether an extremum
[ek-STREE-mum] is a maximum or a minimum. The chain rule and quotient rule are ways
to perform this operation. The opposite of this operation is used to evaluate an integral.
Name this operation in calculus that finds the slope of a tangent line.
Answer: (taking or finding) derivative(s) [or differentiation; accept partial derivative;
reject “deriving”]
3. One possible improvement to these things is made by coating gold nanowires with
manganese dioxide [“MAN-gun-ease die-oxide”], then covering them with gel. The Chinese
company CATL is a major producer of these objects. A 2016 controversy over slow Apple
iPhones was named for these things. Efforts to improve the recycling of these objects focus on
economical ways to collect cobalt, nickel, copper, and aluminum. These objects have caused
recent problems by catching fire in e-bikes and Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phones. Name these
sources of power for many mobile electronic objects.
Answer: battery [accept batteries and more specific answers]
1
4. After part of this legislative action had been repealed, the Crittenden Compromise
called for it to be restored and strengthened. This legislative action was passed without
the Tallmadge Amendment that had been rejected by the Senate a year earlier. Illinois
Senator Jesse Thomas added a proviso to this legislation that was repealed 34 years later by
a different piece of legislation drafted by Illinois Senator Stephen Douglas. This legislative
action established the line of latitude 36 degrees, 30 minutes as the northernmost extent of
slavery in future states. Name this legislation that admitted Maine as a free state and its
namesake state as a slave state.
Answer: Missouri Compromise of 1820
5. Crystals whose name indicates that they have many properties of this type of material are
classified as thermotropic [“thermo-tropic”] or lyotropic [“LIE-oh-tropic”]. Robert Goddard
successfully pushed for using this type of material as a rocket fuel, and he successfully
used oxygen in this form. After cuprate–perovskite [“COOP-rate” puh-RAWV-skyt] ceramic
superconductors were discovered, it became common to use nitrogen in this form to cool them.
Mixtures in this form can be separated by distillation. Name this state of matter that has
a fixed volume but conforms to the shape of its container, and which boils to become a gas
and freezes to become a solid.
Answer: liquids [before “fuel”, accept liquid crystals]
6. This leader’s power was solidified after his enemies chained about 1,000 of their own ships
together and had their supplies blockaded at the Battle of Yamen [YAH-mun]. The term
kamikaze started being used hundreds of years ago when storms prevented this person from
controlling Japan. This person initially gained power by defeating his brother Ariq Böke
[ah-REEK bohk], and he completed his uncle Ögedei’s [oh-guh-“die’s”] fight by defeating the
Song dynasty during the 13th century. Name this son of Tolui [tuh-loi], who in turn was the
son of Genghis Khan.
Answer: Kublai Khan [accept Shizu or Setsen Khan; prompt on Khan]
2
7. One novel by this writer is about Fabien and his boss Rivière working on airmail
deliveries in South America. This author of Night Flight also wrote Wind, Sand and Stars
about his plane crash in the Sahara Desert. Another book by this writer ends with a picture
of “the loveliest and saddest landscape in the world” and describes a character as “a little
man…who laughs, who has golden hair and who refuses to answer questions”. This writer
drew the cover art for that book, which shows the same character on Asteroid B 612. Name
this French writer who included a picture of “a boa constrictor digesting an elephant” in The
Little Prince.
Answer: Antoine de Saint-Exupéry [an-twahn day sawn eg-zoo-pair-ay]
8. This NASA program originally included astronaut Deke Slayton, but because of an
irregular heart rhythm he was not allowed to fly until later. The last flight in this NASA
program, which was significantly longer than the others, carried Gordon Cooper. All of the
space capsules for this program were given a name that ended with a 7 in honor of the
seven astronauts in this program. This program met its goals of orbiting a crewed spacecraft
around Earth with a successful re-entry. John Glenn and Alan Shepard were pilots in this
program. Name this NASA project that was before Gemini and Apollo.
Answer: Project Mercury
9. In this novel, a six-year-old boy has one side of his face “blotted out by a mulberry-colored
birthmark”. After he is laughed at, he asks what the other characters in this novel are
going to do about the snake-thing, touching off an argument about whether there is a
beastie. Eventually, the characters in this novel become obsessed with the beast, at one
point mistaking the corpse of the pilot for it and then killing Simon because they mistake
him for it. In this novel, a conflict develops between the followers of Jack and Ralph. Name
this novel about boys stranded on an island, written by William Golding.
Answer: Lord of the Flies
10. While serving in the House of Representatives, this person sponsored the first major
legislation passed by Congress, the Tariff of 1789. Though it was sometimes referred to as
the Randolph Plan, this person was the primary author of the Virginia Plan that led to the
Constitutional Convention. This person worked with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay to
write The Federalist Papers, and he was the primary author of the Bill of Rights. Name
this person who was nicknamed the “father of the Constitution” and served as the fourth
president, between Thomas Jefferson and James Monroe.
Answer: James Madison
3
11. This metal is in the mineral named for the writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
[GRR-tuh]. Magnesium, calcium, or this element combine with silicate [SILL-ih-kayt] to form
silicate perovskite [puh-RAWV-skyt]. Most of planet Mercury’s mass is this element. The
decay of nickel to cobalt and then to this element ends the alpha process, which commonly
leads to supernovas. This metal is the primary element in meteorites. In the human body,
most of this element is concentrated in hemoglobin. An alloy combining this element with a
little carbon is very commonly used to make buildings, cars, and other objects. Name this
element that is used to make steel and whose Latin name is “ferrum”.
Answer: iron [before “ferrum”, accept Fe]
12. One character in this novel asks “When should I come here to find out if there’s
anything you want me to do for you?” and receives the reply “When I’m not here.” Soon
after that, a character in this novel sends somebody broiled Maine lobster with Roquefort
[rawk-for] salad and two frozen éclairs despite being told not to do so. That character in
this novel is eventually court-martialed for treason but gets out of it thanks to his massive
profits. The recipient of the food is this novel’s character Major Major, and the mess officer
is Milo Minderbinder. This novel is mainly about Yossarian, a bomber during World War II.
Identify this novel by Joseph Heller named for a paradoxical situation Yossarian finds himself
in.
Answer: Catch-22
13. Embryos have a passage in this organ called the foramen ovale [fuh-RAY-mun
oh-VAH-lee], but it closes at birth. The bulbus cordis in fetuses eventually becomes
the infundibulum [in-fun-DIB-yoo-lum] in this organ. The muscle tissue in this organ
is connected by intercalated [in-TUR-kuh-lay-tid] discs. Problems with this organ are
sometimes treated with beta blockers. Abnormalities in this organ can cause early
repolarization or either long or short QT syndrome. Much of this organ consists of muscle in
the myocardium [“my”-oh-KAR-dee-um], and it also includes the mitral [“MY”-trul] valve
and tricuspid [“try”-KUSS-pid] valve. Name this organ with two atria [AY-tree-uh] and two
ventricles that pumps blood.
Answer: heart
4
14. This god is celebrated as the groom during the Festival of the Beautiful Union, which
includes a procession to this god’s temple in Edfu. One of this god’s eyes was healed either
by Hathor or Thoth after being injured by his rival; that eye is depicted in the wedjat symbol.
The right eye of this god was the Sun, and his left eye was the Moon. This god won a boat
race by painting a wooden boat so that it looked like it was made of stone. Many of the
battles fought by this god were after his mother Isis told him to protect people from Set.
Name this Egyptian god who took the form of a falcon.
Answer: Horus [accept Har or Heru]
15. One poem by this writer describes a steam train as though it is a horse, ending with
the line “Docile and omnipotent at its own stable door”. That poem, about an object that
“lick[s] the valleys up”, is “I like to see it lap the Miles”. In another poem, this writer claims
that they passed the school, the fields of grazing grain, and the setting Sun, but then adds
“Or rather—he passed Us.” This poet ended that work with the line “I first surmised the
horses’ heads were toward eternity.” Name this poet who wrote “Because I could not stop
for Death” and lived in Massachusetts her entire life.
Answer: Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson
16. The first untethered hot-air balloon carried a sheep, a rooster, and a duck away from
this place. This place was used for the Proclamation of the German Empire by William I in
1871. A month later, Otto von Bismarck signed a preliminary peace treaty in this place. Just
after signing a treaty with the United States, King George III signed treaties with France
and Spain in this place. Another agreement reached in this place was heavily criticized by
the economist John Maynard Keynes [“canes”] and ended World War I. Name this commune
near Paris whose palace is famous.
Answer: Versailles, France [accept Palace of Versailles or Chateau de Versailles]
17. In one novel by this author, Flossie Monro refers to a man as “Claudie” and says that he
was “always fiddling with his bread at [the] table”. “Claudie”, whom this author called “the
Destroyer”, works with Li Chang Yen, Madame Olivier, and Abe Ryland. Another novel by
this author is narrated by Hastings and is about a woman who found a letter while looking
for stamps. That woman, Emily Inglethorp, is found dead at the beginning of this writer’s
novel, and her death is investigated by Hercule Poirot. Name this author of The Big Four
and The Mysterious Affair at Styles.
Answer: Agatha (Mary Clarissa Miller) Christie [accept either underlined name or Lady
Mallowan]
5
18. This city’s Algiers neighborhood is across the river from the rest of the city. Unlike the
one in New York City, the Audubon Park in this city is an actual park. This city’s National
D-Day Museum is now the National WWII [“World War Two”] Museum. This city’s Fair
Grounds Race Course hosts an enormous annual music festival. This city is sometimes called
“the Big Easy”, and because of the shape of the Mississippi River in this city, it is sometimes
called Crescent City. Jazz music is often performed in this city’s French Quarter, especially
along Bourbon Street. Name this most populous city in Louisiana.
Answer: New Orleans, Louisiana
19. In one form of Bernoulli’s principle, this quantity is added to density times gravitational
field strength times height. The value of this quantity caused by a liquid equals gravitational
field strength times density times depth. A change in this quantity is distributed equally
throughout an incompressible fluid according to Pascal’s law. For an ideal gas, this quantity
is related to volume by Boyle’s law. A barometer measures this quantity for the atmosphere.
This quantity equals force per unit area. Name this quantity that can be measured in
atmospheres, millimeters of mercury, or pascals.
Answer: pressure
20. Pieces by this composer are the primary reason that basset clarinets are sometimes
produced, and the Clarinet Concerto this composer wrote at the end of his life for Anton
Stadler was originally composed for the basset clarinet. An opera by this composer contains
the aria “Zu Hilfe [tsoo HIL-fuh]! Zu Hilfe!”, which is sung before a serpent is killed to save
Tamino by attendants of the Queen of the Night. This composer named that opera for an
instrument that can change sorrow into joy. Name this composer from Salzburg who wrote
The Magic Flute and gained early fame as a child prodigy.
Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus
Mozart]
21. The Euler [OY-lur] theorem in geometry uses two values of this quantity to find the
distance between a circumcenter and incenter of a triangle. The most common measure
of curvature equals the reciprocal of this quantity with respect to an osculating shape. A
position vector is sometimes named for this quantity, which explains the letter often used to
represent it in two- or three-dimensions. In the formula for the area of a circle, this quantity
is squared. Name this quantity equal to half the diameter.
Answer: radius
6
7
2024 Reinstein Set – Packet 1
Bonuses
1. The person this diagram is named for played cricket with G. H. Hardy and convinced
him to work on genetics problems.
A. Name this “square” diagram used to predict genotypes.
Answer: Punnett square
B. A Punnett square shows a 1/4 probability of a recessive trait being expressed when each
parent has this property of having different alleles [uh-LEELZ].
Answer: heterozygous
C. Give the two-word phrase for a situation where offspring are produced from one parent
with a recessive phenotype and another parent with a dominant phenotype but unknown
genotype, with the goal of determining the genotype.
Answer: test cross(ing)
2. This person is called the “father of experimental psychology” and is usually credited
with setting up the first formal psychological lab.
A. Name this German scientist who focused his work on consciousness and worked at the
University of Leipzig [“LIE”P-zik] in the 19th and 20th centuries.
Answer: Wilhelm (Maximilian) Wundt [vuunt]
B. This American set up a psychological lab at about the same time as Wundt and later
hired Wundt’s student Hugo Münsterberg to direct it. This person wrote The Varieties of
Religious Experience and popularized the philosophy of pragmatism.
Answer: William James
C. Much of Wundt’s writings focused on these detections of stimuli, the classical examples
of which are sight, smell, touch, taste, and hearing.
Answer: senses [accept sensations]
3. A series is a sum of a sequence.
A. A common way to express a series uses this Greek letter with an equation below it, a
number above it, and an expression for terms of the sequence to the right of it.
Answer: sigma
B. There are several tests to help determine whether a series has this property, meaning
that it approaches a finite limit as the number of terms increases.
Answer: convergence [or being convergent or converging; accept converges]
C. Find the sum of the infinite geometric series 36 plus 12 plus 4, et cetera.
Answer: 54
8
4. This is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar.
A. Name this month in which observant Muslim people fast from dawn to sunset.
Answer: Ramadan [accept Ramazan or Ramzan or Ramathan]
B. Ramadan is holy because it is the month in which this angel first visited Muhammad.
Answer: Jibril or Gabriel
C. Give the Arabic name for the night near the end of Ramadan that is believed to be the
first night when Muhammad was visited. The English name is sometimes given as “Night of
Power”.
Answer: Laylat al-Qadr [accept Night of Al-Qadr]
5. George H. W. Bush was the president from 1989 to 1993.
A. Bush succeeded this president, under whom he was vice president for most of the 1980s.
Answer: Ronald (Wilson) Reagan
B. While campaigning, Bush often said “Read my lips” and then these three words. He
lost some support within the Republican Party because he did not follow through on his
promise.
Answer: “No new taxes”
C. Bush signed this law that created accessibility requirements for public accommodations.
Answer: Americans with Disabilities Act (of 1990) or the ADA
6. This play is named for the brother of Edward IV [4].
A. Name this play by William Shakespeare that begins with the title character saying “Now
is the winter of our discontent.”
Answer: Richard III [reject “Richard”]
B. During the Battle of Bosworth Field, Richard exclaims “My kingdom for” what?
Answer: a horse
C. This character, who is the future Henry VII [7] Tudor, kills Richard, declaring “The day
is ours, the bloody dog is dead.”
Answer: Earl of Richmond
9
7. This person promised not to run for re-election if elected in 1844, and he kept that
promise in 1848.
A. Name this Democratic president who served between the Whigs John Tyler and Zachary
Taylor.
Answer: James K(nox) Polk
B. Polk used the slogan “Fifty-Four Forty or Fight”, referring to the boundary of this
territory.
Answer: Oregon Territory
C. This person served as Polk’s Secretary of the Treasury. He reduced tariffs, re-established
the independent treasury system, and drafted the bill that created the Department of the
Interior.
Answer: Robert J(ames) Walker
8. The 5th part of this collection is based on Béla Kéler’s “Remembrances of Bártfa”,
though the composer probably thought it was a folk tune.
A. Name this collection of 21 pieces, 10 of which were published in 1869 and 11 of which
were published in 1880.
Answer: Hungarian Dances [or Ungarische Tänze]
B. This German composer wrote the Hungarian Dances, the Academic Festival Overture
and the Tragic Overture.
Answer: Johannes Brahms
C. Brahms used a theme from the 24th Caprice by this Italian composer to write a set of
variations.
Answer: Niccolò Paganini
9. This landmass was a combination of Gondwana, Euramerica and Siberia.
A. Name this supercontinent that broke apart about 200 million years ago.
Answer: Pangea
B. This German climatologist developed the idea of Pangea as part of his theory of
continental drift.
Answer: Alfred (Lothar) Wegener [VAY-guh-nur]
C. Pangea existed during this geologic period between the Carboniferous and Triassic
Periods.
Answer: Permian period
10
10. The term “Indochina” was used in the first half of the 20th century for an area that
roughly corresponds to modern Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam.
A. Which European country controlled Indochina during the first half of the 20th century?
Answer: France [or (Fourth) French Republic or République française; accept French
Union]
B. Cambodia achieved independence in 1953 under the rule of this king, who became its
chief of state until a 1970 coup.
Answer: Norodom Sihanouk [see-huh-“nook”] [prompt on Sihanouk]
C. France withdrew from Indochina after they surrendered during this 1954 battle against
the Viet Minh.
Answer: Battle of Dien Bien Phu
11. Identify these ancient sculptures originally from what is now Greece:
A. The modern name for this sculpture refers to the island where it was found in 1820.
This sculpture is displayed in the Louvre and depicts a woman or goddess, but the arms are
missing.
Answer: Venus de Milo [or Aphrodite of Milo; accept Milos or Melos in place of
Milo]
B. This Trojan priest and his sons are depicted being attacked by serpents in a sculpture
on display in Vatican City.
Answer: Laocoön [lay-AH-koh-ahn] and His Sons
C. Though the original no longer exists, there are Roman copies of this Myron sculpture
that portrays an athlete.
Answer: Discobolus [accept The Discus Thrower]
12. Heron’s formula, also called Hero’s formula, is a way to find the area of a triangle when
you know the side lengths.
A. The first step in using Heron’s formula is to calculate this quantity, which is half of a
more commonly used quantity.
Answer: semi-perimeter [reject “perimeter”]
B. If the sides of a triangle measure 4, 4, and 2, what is the semiperimeter of the triangle?
Answer: 5 (units)
C. If the sides of a triangle measure 4, 4, and 2, what is the area of the triangle?
Answer: square root of 15 (square units) [accept radical 15 (square units)]
11
13. This system was enacted under the leadership of D. F. Malan [muh-LAHN].
A. Name this policy of institutionalized racism that was in force in South Africa from the
1940s until the 1990s.
Answer: apartheid
B. This 1963 and 1964 trial named for a Johannesburg suburb convicted many anti-apartheid
activists, including Nelson Mandela.
Answer: Rivonia Trial
C. This anti-apartheid activist, who sometimes wrote under the pseudonym Frank Talk, was
beaten to death by security officers in 1977. His death was publicized by Donald Woods.
Answer: (Bantu) Stephen Biko
14. Frederick Sanger, Michael Smith, and several other people won Nobel Prizes in
Chemistry for working with these types of molecules.
A. Name these molecules made of amino acids joined by peptide bonds.
Answer: proteins [prompt on polypeptides]
B. Arne Tiselius [AR-nuh tih-SAY-lee-uss] studied proteins after developing this process to
separate charged particles. This process was later improved with the use of gels.
Answer: electrophoresis [eh-LEK-troh-fuh-REE-siss]
C. The 2004 Nobel Prize was shared for research on this eukaryotic protein that marks other
proteins for degradation.
Answer: ubiquitin
15. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist receives a letter telling him to go to the
Mission House in Sophiatown.
A. Name this novel about a reverend who goes to Johannesburg, where he sees that his
sister Gertrude is a prostitute and his son Absalom has committed murder.
Answer: Cry, the Beloved Country
B. This author wrote Cry, the Beloved Country and Too Late the Phalarope
[FAA-luh-“rope”].
Answer: Alan (Stewart) Paton
C. James Jarvis, whose son Arthur was murdered, provides this commodity for the children
of Ndotsheni [en-dot-shay-n’].
Answer: milk
12
16. Animals in this phylum have a dorsal body wall, called a mantle, that in many cases
creates a shell.
A. Name this phylum that includes squids, octopuses, clams, and oysters.
Answer: mollusks [or Mollusca]
B. This largest class of mollusks includes snails and slugs.
Answer: gastropods [or Gastropoda]
C. This type of cephalopod mollusk, which is not an octopus, has an internal shell whose
name misleadingly includes the word “bone”. The color sepia is named for the ink these
animals sometimes release.
Answer: cuttlefish (The shell is called the cuttlebone.)
17. This poem begins “Bent double, like old beggars under sacks.”
A. Name this poem whose title is based on a line from Horace’s odes.
Answer: “Dulce et Decorum est” [DULL-kay et day-KOR-um EST]
B. This poet wrote “Dulce et Decorum est” and “Anthem for Doomed Youth”.
Answer: Wilfred (Edward Salter) Owen
C. Fill in the blank from the first line of “Anthem for Doomed Youth”: “What passing-bells
for these who die as [blank]?”
Answer: cattle
18. Graphs of even functions have this property with respect to the y-axis.
A. Name this quality of something that does not change when it is reflected.
Answer: reflection symmetry [or being symmetrical; accept line symmetry or linear
symmetry or mirror(-image) symmetry]
B. Of the six basic trigonometric functions, which two have graphs that are symmetric with
respect to the y-axis?
Answer: cosine and secant [either order; accept answers that additionally mention a
variable; reject “sine” or “cosecant”]
C. How many lines of symmetry does a rectangle have if the rectangle is not a square?
Answer: two lines of symmetry
13
19. An old woman in this story says “He has changed himself into something awful, only
by hiding his face.”
A. Name this story about Parson Hooper, who asks “What, but the mystery which it
obscurely typifies, has made this piece of crepe so awful?”.
Answer: “The Minister’s Black Veil”
B. This author included “The Minister’s Black Veil” in the collection Twice-Told Tales along
with “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment”.
Answer: Nathaniel Hawthorne [or Nathaniel Hathorne]
C. At the beginning of “The Minister’s Black Veil”, the person who holds this position is
ringing a bell.
Answer: sexton
20. This constant is about 6.626 times 10 to the negative 34 joule-seconds.
A. Name this constant often represented by a lowercase h.
Answer: Planck’s constant
B. Planck’s constant is used in Planck’s law, which models the electromagnetic radiation
given off by this ideal object that absorbs all incident electromagnetic radiation.
Answer: black body/ies
C. Planck’s constant is used to derive the constant in the Stefan-Boltzmann law, which states
that the power per surface area of a black body is proportional to this power of absolute
temperature.
Answer: 4th power
14