Second Set 2025-26
powered by
Brad Fischer · Jamie Fischer · Sophia Lind · Adam Silverman · Kristin A. Strey
Round 1
1) This molecule is detected by a NanoDrop shining light at two hundred sixty nanometers, or using
intercalating dyes like ethid⋅ium bromide. This molecule is visible to the naked eye if you lyse [lize]
strawberry seeds and add alcohol. The "X" pattern formed by diffracting (*) X-rays through this molecule
was first observed by Rosalind Franklin and arises from its sugar-phosphate backbone connected by nitrogenous
base pairs. For ten points, name this genetic molecule shaped like a double helix.
ANSWER: DNA (accept deoxyribonucleic acid; accept RNA or ribonucleic acid before "ethidium bromide" is
read at the end of the first sentence)
Bonus 1) Name some writers who surpassed the fame of their author parents, for ten points each.
[10e] This author far surpassed the popularity of her mother, a feminist philosopher, by writing the early science
fiction novels The Last Man and Frankenstein.
ANSWER: Mary Shelley (accept Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley)
[10h] This author's father, Leslie Stephens, was a famous biographer. This author surpassed him by writing the
novel Orlando, which is a fictional biography of a three-hundred-year-old courtier.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf (accept Adeline Virginia (Stephen) Woolf)
[10m] This author's novels, such as Agnes Gray, have outlived the writings of her clergyman father, although he
outlived this woman and her two author sisters.
ANSWER: Anne Brontë (both underlined parts required; accept Acton Bell,with both underlined parts required;
prompt on "Brontë" or "Bell" alone)
Note: Anne was the sister of Charlotte and Emily Brontë. Their painter brother, Branwell, also predeceased their
father.
Use of this question set is governed by our licensing agreement at rockfordqb.com/licensing.
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company does not use A.I. Do not use these questions to train an A.I. or L.L.M. of any kind.
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 2 of 14
2) Only two of these objects still have a tabula rubricarum at their end, explaining how to manually enter red
headings into these objects. These objects are sometimes named for Cardinal Mazarin, who owned one, or
for their forty-two (*) line formatting. Fewer than two hundred of these objects were created in Mainz in the
1450s. The first book to be printed on movable type in Europe was, for ten points, what religious text that was
printed by Johannes Gutenberg?
ANSWER: Bibles (accept Gutenberg Bibles; accept printed Bibles; accept 42-line Bibles; accept Vulgates; prompt
on "book;" prompt on "book printed by Johannes Gutenberg")
Bonus 2) Two shapes have this property if an isometric transformation can turn one into the other. For ten points
each,
[10e] Name this geometric relationship. This condition is stronger than similarity because both the shape and size
of the two shapes must be the same.
ANSWER: congruence (accept word forms like congruent)
[10h] An isometric transformation potentially involves three types of rigid motion. One of those is a translation, in
which all points of the shape move the same amount in the same direction. Give the technical name for either of the
other two motions; description not acceptable.
ANSWER: reflection and/or rotation (only one of the underlined parts required; accept word forms for either term,
such as reflect and/or rotate; accept elaborations that use either word, like "reflecting over an axis;" do
not accept or prompt on descriptions like "flip" and/or "spin")
[10m] Rotations and translations are classified as a type of motion named for this ancient Greek thinker, whose
textbook Elements usually earns him the title "Father of Geometry."
ANSWER: Euclid of Alexandria [yoo-klid] (accept Euclidean motion)
3) This composer's last symphony ends with an Adagio Lamentoso movement, has a "limping waltz" written in
five-four time in its second movement, and premiered nine days before this man's death in 1893. The Waltz
of the (*) Flowers and the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy were composed by this man for a popular winter-time
ballet. For ten points, name this composer of the Pathétique Symphony and The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 3 of 14
Bonus 3) Name some boisterously-celebrated holidays, for ten points each.
[10e] This Christian winter holiday is celebrated with carol singing, parties, and gift-giving to commemorate the
birth of Jesus.
ANSWER: Christmas Day (accept Yule)
[10m] This joyful holiday is the first day after Ramadan. It ends the month-long fast with lavish meals, sweets, and
personal forgiveness.
ANSWER: Eid al-Fitr [eed al fee-tuhr] (accept lesser Eid; do not accept "Eid al-Adha" or any other Eid)
[10h] In this Jewish holiday, celebrants drink, give gifts, and shout to drown out the name of Haman during
readings of the Book of Esther.
ANSWER: Purim
4) This team is owned by Clay Bennett, who lied to Howard Schultz, the CEO of Starbucks, about his plans for
it. GM Sam Presti traded Paul George away from this team in 2019, starting a rebuild that included drafting
(*) Jalen Williams and Chet Holmgren. After the Pacers' Tyrese Haliburton tore his Achilles in Game Seven, this
team won its first title. MVP Shai Gilgeous-Alexander [shay gill-juss "alexander"] plays for, for ten points, what
2025 NBA champions from Oklahoma?
ANSWER: Oklahoma City Thunder (accept Oklahoma City Thunder; do not accept or prompt on "Oklahoma"
alone)
Note: Clay Bennett bought the Seattle SuperSonics after promising not to move them, then almost immediately
moved them. It is the official position of RQBCo that Seattle deserves an NBA team.
Bonus 4) If you need to take a proton off a hydrocarbon, you better hope that the hydrocarbon is one of these
compounds, because their pKa values are only twenty-five. For ten points each,
[10m] Name this class of hydrocarbons that have a carbon-carbon triple bond.
ANSWER: alkynes (listen carefully and do not accept or prompt on "alkane" or "alkene")
[10e] To ionize an alkyne, you’ll need a very strong one of these compounds, like sodium amide. Sodium
hydroxide, a so-called “strong” one of these compounds, isn’t good enough!
ANSWER: bases (accept alkali or alkaline; accept more specific types like Arrhenius bases)
[10h] You’ll probably want to do the experiment in this solvent, not water. The most common weak bases are
derivatives that replace the N-H bonds in this compound.
ANSWER: ammonia (accept NH3; listen carefully and do not accept "ammonium")
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 4 of 14
5) In a short story by this author, Sergeant X receives a watch from a little girl he meets while preparing to
participate in D-Day. "For Esmé—with Love and Squalor" appears in this author's collection (*) Nine
Stories, which also contains a story in which Sybil Carpenter swims at a hotel with Seymour Glass. "A Perfect Day
for Bananafish" is by, for ten points, what American author who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in
the Rye?
ANSWER: J.D. Salinger (accept Jerome David Salinger)
Bonus 5) This man survived numerous "buried alive" and "water cell" escapes, but died of internal inflammation
after being punched in the stomach when he wasn't ready. For ten points each,
[10e] Name this early twentieth century escape artist, possibly the most famous magician of all time.
ANSWER: Harry Houdini (accept Erik Weisz)
[10h] Houdini often performed a "buried alive" stunt in one of this organization's swimming pools. Basketball and
volleyball were invented in Massachusetts at branches of this organization.
ANSWER: YMCA (accept Young Men's Christian Association; prompt on "the Y")
[10m] Description acceptable. Houdini frequently debunked fraudulent mediums who claimed that this activity
was possible at a séance. Houdini promised his wife that, if this activity were possible, he would use the secret code
phrase "Rosabelle believe" during it.
ANSWER: talking with the dead (accept descriptive answers like communicating with deceased people,
hearing ghosts talk, etc.; accept raising spirits)
6) On his deathbed, this figure shoots an arrow and asks to be buried where it lands. This figure legendarily
butchered the head of Guy of Gisborne after winning an archery contest. This figure led gatherings at the
Major Oak in (*) Sherwood Forest with Maid Marian and some of his "Merry Men." The Sheriff of Nottingham
opposes, for ten points, what legendary English outlaw who steals from the rich to give to the poor?
ANSWER: Robin Hood (accept Robyn Hode, accept Robin of Locksley; accept Robert Locksley)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 5 of 14
Bonus 6) Name these locations depicted in the art of various woodblock artists, for ten points each,
[10e] Hokusai [hoh-koo-sah-ee] painted "Thirty-six Views of" this Japanese mountain, including one where it
appears behind a "Great Wave" and one where it appears red under a "Fine Wind, [and] Clear Morning."
ANSWER: Mount Fuji (accept Fujisan; accept Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji; accept Red Fuji)
[10m] Hiroshi Yoshida [hee-roh-shee yoh-shee-dah] painted a landscape of the "Morning Mist" at this monument.
Yoshida traveled with his son to Agra, India, to view this large white mausoleum commissioned by Shah Jahan.
ANSWER: Taj Mahal (accept Morning Mist in Taj Mahal)
[10h] Hasui Kawase [hah-soo-ee kah-wah-say] gained acclaim for "Twenty Views" of this city, such as "Night
Rain" on its Shinohashi Bridge [shee-noh-hah-shee "bridge"] and snow on its Zōjō-ji temple [zoh-joh-jee "temple"].
ANSWER: Tokyo (accept Twenty Views of Tōkyō)
7) LUVOIR [loov-WAHR] is a proposal for one of these devices to be launched in 2039. Lyman Spitzer
proposed that twinkling could be reduced by putting these devices in space. After a spherical aberration was
fixed on one of these devices in the 1990s, it made the (*) Pillars of Creation photo. The biggest of these devices
now in orbit reflects I⋅R light and was named for NASA’s longtime director James Webb. The Hubble is, for ten
points, what type of observation device in space?
ANSWER: telescope (accept space telescope; accept more specific answers like "reflecting telescopes" or
"refracting telescopes;" accept James Webb Space Telescope before "Webb" is read in the
second-to-last sentence; accept Hubble Space Telescope before "Hubble" is read in the last sentence)
Bonus 7) Julia Alvarez' book In the Time of the Butterflies details the Mirabal sisters, three political activists who
were assassinated by this ruler's henchmen. For ten points each,
[10h] Name this twentieth century Caribbean dictator, nicknamed El Jefe [el HAY-fay], who himself was
assassinated in a car ambush outside Santo Domingo in 1961.
ANSWER: Rafael Trujillo [troo-HEE-yoh]
[10m] Trujillo [troo-HEE-yoh] was the dictator of this Latin American country whose capital is Santo Domingo.
ANSWER: Dominican Republic (accept República Dominicana; prompt on "Dominican")
[10e] Trujillo's assassins were aided in some fashion by this American spy agency, which conducted operations
throughout Latin America under director Allen Dulles.
ANSWER: C⋅I⋅A (accept Central Intelligence Agency)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 6 of 14
8) The Kanawha River meets this river at Point Pleasant, just upstream of Huntington. This river's mouth is
just downstream of the Cairo [kay-ro] Iron Bridge. The cities of Evansville and (*) Louisville are on this river,
which is formed by the Allegheny and Mo⋅non⋅ga⋅he⋅la Rivers in Pittsburgh. The border between Indiana and
Kentucky is formed by, for ten points, what river that flows past Cincinnati in its namesake state?
ANSWER: Ohio River
Bonus 8) Harold Urey discovered a "heavy" version of this element, earning him a 1934 Nobel Prize and allowing
him to create heavy water. For ten points each,
[10e] Name this lightest chemical element.
ANSWER: hydrogen (accept H)
[10m] Hydrogen exists in two stable isotopes: protium, which has zero neutrons, and deuterium, which has one.
This unstable isotope of hydrogen has two neutrons and takes its name from its atomic weight.
ANSWER: tritium (accept hydrogen-3; accept H-3; prompt on "T;" do not prompt on "hydrogen" alone)
[10h] In a small number of nuclear reactors, heavy water is used as this type of material that slows down neutrons
and maintains an appropriately sustained chain reaction. Most nuclear reactors use light water for this purpose, and
a small number use graphite.
ANSWER: moderator (accept neutron moderator; accept word forms like "moderating the reaction")
9) This novel's protagonist argues with the barber Master Nicholas over the best historical knight, and he
battles a disguised Samson Carrasco. In this novel, Aldonza Lorenza is imagined to be the beautiful (*)
Dulcinea del Toboso by a man who rides the aging horse Rocinante and attacks windmills he thinks are giants. For
ten points, name this Spanish novel in which Sancho Panza acts as the squire to a man pretending to be a knight,
written by Miguel de Cervantes.
ANSWER: Don Quijote [kee-HOH-tay] (accept The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quijote of La Mancha; accept El
Ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 7 of 14
Bonus 9) Music critic "Todd in the Shadows" maintains a list of hundreds of songs that take this word as a literal,
musical instruction. For ten points each,
[10m] Name this imperative direction that you are instructed to do "in the Name of Love" in a 1965 hit by The
Supremes.
ANSWER: stop (accept descriptions of "when the word stop happens in the lyrics and the music literally stops for
a moment")
[10h] Todd's half-hour long supercut of songs that stop on the word "stop" ends with this 1981 Journey hit, as used
in the infamous final scene of The Sopranos.
ANSWER: Don't Stop Believin'
[10e] In November 2025, Todd lamented that this song had a "perfect opportunity" to stop on the word "stop," but
didn't. Instead, this song's next line, "I'ma cut you open, lose control, then rip out your heart," is sung next by
Twice, as heard in the end credits of KPop Demon Hunters.
ANSWER: Takedown
10) Negotiations after this battle took place at Moore House between Alexander Ross and John Laurens. The
Comte de Grasse's fleet supported the winning side in this battle. At the end of this battle, shortly before
Charles O'Hara offered his sword to (*) Benjamin Lincoln, a band legendarily played the tune "The World
Turned Upside Down." Lord Cornwallis surrendered at, for ten points, what climactic battle in Virginia that
effectively ended the American Revolution?
ANSWER: Battle of Yorktown
Bonus 10) This poet wrote about raising his eyes to the sky, then bowing his head and thinking of home. For ten
points each,
[10h] Name this poet who wrote "Quiet Night Thought" in Tang dynasty China.
ANSWER: Li Bai (accept Li Po; accept Li Bo; accept Li Taibai)
[10m] In "Quiet Night Thought," Li Bai looks up at this celestial object. According to legend, Li died while trying
to embrace the reflection of this object.
ANSWER: moon
[10e] Li's friend Du Fu described him as one of the "immortals of" this substance. Li may have been drunk on this
substance when he drowned trying to embrace the moon's reflection in the water.
ANSWER: wine (accept alcohol; accept Eight Immortals of the Wine Cup; do not accept other types of alcohol)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 8 of 14
11) The rate of this process scales with the fourth power of temperature according to the Stefan-Boltzmann law.
The physical pressure generated by this process powers a solar sail. (*) Planck’s law describes the power of this
process as a function of wavelength for a blackbody. Unlike conduction and convection, this form of heat transfer
can work in a vacuum. For ten points, heat from the Sun is mostly transferred by what process that also emits light?
ANSWER: radiation (accept electromagnetic radiation; accept word forms like radiating or radiance; accept
irradiation or blackbody radiation; accept radiation pressure; accept solar radiation; accept
emission or emitting before "emit" is read in the last sentence)
Bonus 11) Name the following Soviet figures from World War Two, for ten points each.
[10e] This dictator led the USSR after the death of Vladimir Lenin, through World War Two, until his death in
1953.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin (accept Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; accept Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili)
[10m] This man served as Stalin's Minister of Foreign Affairs before and during the war. He signed a
non-aggression pact with his Nazi counterpart, Joachin von Ribbentrop, but he may be better known as the
namesake of a makeshift weapon used by Finnish combatants in the Winter War.
ANSWER: Vyacheslav Molotov (accept Vyacheslav Mikhaylovich Molotov; accept Vyacheslav Mikhailovich
Skryabin; accept Molotov-Ribbentrop pact; accept Molotov cocktail)
[10h] This Soviet Marshal oversaw the Red Army's encirclement of the Germans at Stalingrad and the capture of
Berlin in 1945.
ANSWER: Georgy Zhukov (accept Georgy Konstantinovich Zhukov)
12) The "abstract" type of this study concerns fields, rings, and groups, which involve sets and associated
operations. Complex numbers are either transcendental or are named for this branch of math. The
Fundamental Theorem of this study notes that a degree N (*) polynomial with complex coefficients has N
complex roots. Arabic scholar Al-Khwarizmi [al kwah-RIZ-mee] inspired the name of, for ten points, what branch
of math whose study in high school concerns both numbers and variables?
ANSWER: algebra (accept abstract algebra; accept algebraic number; accept Fundamental Theorem of Algebra)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 9 of 14
Bonus 12) This novel's protagonist is part of an arranged marriage with Logan Killicks, runs off with Jody Starks,
and finally marries for love. For ten points each,
[10m] Name this novel in which Janie Crawford tells the story of her life to her friend, Phoeby Watson.
ANSWER: Their Eyes Were Watching God
[10h] In Their Eyes Were Watching God, Janie's third marriage is to this man. During the 1928 Okeechobee
Hurricane, this man is bitten by a rabid dog, forcing Janie to shoot him in self-defense.
ANSWER: Tea Cake (accept Vergible Woods; accept Vergible Woods)
[10e] Their Eyes Were Watching God is by this American author and anthropologist.
ANSWER: Zora Neale Hurston
13) This god is the namesake of the Sanskrit mantra "Hari Om," which calls on this god to remove suffering.
The holidays Jan⋅mash⋅tami and Rama Navami celebrate the births of two of this god's forms. This god is
celebrated during (*) Holi as Nara⋅simha the lion-man, who was one of this god's earthly avatars along with
Krishna and Rama. For ten points, name this preserver god, a member of the Hindu Trimurti alongside Brahma and
Shiva.
ANSWER: Vishnu (accept Visnu; accept Narasimha before it is read after the power)
Bonus 13) The natural trade-off between a low rate of unemployment and a high rate of this quantity is displayed
by the Philips curve. For ten points each,
[10e] Name this economic quantity that measures the general rise in prices over time.
ANSWER: inflation (accept inflation rate)
[10h] Inflation is usually quantified by this type of calculation that tracks the prices of a "basket" of standard items
and services on a monthly basis.
ANSWER: consumer price index (accept C⋅P⋅I; prompt on "index")
[10m] Social Security payments and other benefits are "pegged to inflation," which typically means that they
receive "COLAs" each year to prevent inflation from weakening the benefit. "COLA" stands for this phrase.
ANSWER: cost of living adjustment (prompt on "cost of living" alone)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 10 of 14
14) In Stephen Crane's story "The Blue Hotel," the cowboy is convinced that a man nicknamed for being from
this country is actually a Dutchman. A nickname referring to this country is used by Seymour Levov in
Philip Roth's American Pastoral, and by (*) Ole Andreson in Hemingway's "The Killers." This country is the
home of August Strindberg, and of the Nobel Prize in Literature. For ten points, name this Scandinavian country
east of Norway.
ANSWER: Sweden (accept Kingdom of Sweden; accept Konungariket Sverige; accept The Swede)
Bonus 14) Woodblocks are used in visual art and music; for example, a tone cluster can be played on this
instrument by using a block of wood. For ten points each,
[10e] Name this keyboard instrument whose eighty-eight black and white keys are more typically played with
fingers, not wood.
ANSWER: piano (accept pianoforte or fortepiano; accept specific answers like grand piano)
[10m] Because tone clusters played with woodblocks involve consecutive piano keys playing together, the chord
has this harsh sonic quality. The exact definition of this musical term is subjective, but it is typically contrasted with
consonance.
ANSWER: dissonance (accept word forms like dissonant)
[10h] This American composer of the Three Places in New England asks the pianist to use a foot-long block of
wood in his Concord Sonata.
ANSWER: Charles Ives (accept Charles Edward Ives)
15) In this state's Brooks Brothers riot, Republican aides attacked a canvassing office; four days later, Secretary
of State Katherine Harris announced that a final margin was five-hundred-thirty-seven votes. Voters may
have accidentally voted for (*) Pat Buchanan in this state due to the use of a "butterfly"-shaped ballot in Palm
Beach County. The Election of 2000 between Al Gore and George W. Bush was decided by, for ten points, what
U⋅S state where votes were recounted in Orlando?
ANSWER: Florida
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 11 of 14
Bonus 15) Within this system, Illinois is classified as "D⋅f⋅a," for a continental climate with dry winters and hot
summers. For ten points each,
[10h] Name this climate classification system, developed in the nineteenth century by a German-Russian
meteorologist.
ANSWER: Köppen climate classification
[10e] The Köppen system uses five primary letters, four of which are subdivided by precipitation levels. The fifth
letter describes polar climates, including the icecaps and this cold biome where trees are unable to grow due to
permafrost.
ANSWER: tundra
[10m] While tundra is labeled E⋅T, this cold biome with boreal forests does not have a specific label within the
Köppen system. Pine trees are common in this largest land biome on Earth.
ANSWER: taiga
16) This concept can become a form of "soft despotism," according to a book titled for it and written after Alexis
de Tocqueville toured America in 1831. The term "backsliding" describes a society's gradual trend toward
(*) authoritarianism and away from this concept, as seen when a country's elections become less free. Republics
often, but do not always, have this system. For ten points, name this form of government in which political power is
held by the people.
ANSWER: democracy (accept word forms like democratic; accept Democracy in America; accept De la
Démocratie en Amérique; accept democratic backsliding)
Bonus 16) Give the following about proclamations in American history, for ten points each.
[10m] In this year, Great Britain received French territory in the Treaty of Paris that ended the Seven Years' War,
then issued a proclamation that told American colonists they could not settle west of the Appalachian Mountains.
ANSWER: 1763 (accept (Royal) Proclamation of 1763)
[10h] In November 1775 as revolution neared, this royal governor of Virginia issued a namesake proclamation that
declared martial law and promised freedom for any slaves or indentured servants who joined the British army.
ANSWER: Lord Dunmore (accept Dunmore's Proclamation; accept John Murray, Earl of Dunmore)
[10e] This most famous proclamation in U⋅S history, officially issued on January 1, 1863, pledged freedom to
slaves in most Confederate-held territory.
ANSWER: Emancipation Proclamation
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 12 of 14
17) This artist used monochrome colors to depict the K⋅K⋅K's 1964 killing of three men in his painting Murder in
Mississippi. This artist's painting New Kids in the Neighborhood depicts a white family apprehensive to meet
a Black family with similar interests. Another painting by this artist depicts a girl walking to (*) school
protected by marshals in front of a wall splattered with tomatoes. Ruby Bridges appears in, for ten points, what
American painter's The Problem We All Live With, his first work after leaving the Saturday Evening Post?
ANSWER: Norman Rockwell
Bonus 17) This region names a national park just north of the N⋅goro⋅n⋅goro World Heritage Site. For ten points
each,
[10h] Name this region in Arusha whose grasslands and forests are the site of the world's largest annual migration,
involving hundreds of thousands of wildebeest and other large mammals.
ANSWER: Serengeti (accept Serengeti National Park)
[10m] The Serengeti and N⋅goro⋅n⋅goro area are attractions in this African country, which controls the southern
half of Lake Victoria.
ANSWER: Tanzania (accept United Republic of Tanzania; accept Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania)
[10e] The wildebeest annually migrate through the Serengeti to the Maasai Mara reserve in this country, north of
Tanzania. This country's capital was moved inland from Mombasa to Nairobi in 1907.
ANSWER: Kenya (accept Republic of Kenya; accept Jamhuri ya Kenya)
18) This natural variable of enthalpy and Gibbs free energy equals the negative derivative of internal energy
with respect to volume. This quantity can be reported as the height of a column of mercury next to a gas in a
manometer. (*) Boyle’s law relates this quantity to a gas’ volume. This quantity is estimated as the average force
of collisions of gas molecules with a container divided by area. For ten points, what quantity is measured in Pascals
or atmospheres?
ANSWER: pressure (accept gas pressure; prompt on “P”)
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 13 of 14
Bonus 18) This novel's protagonist is subjected to a long, bureaucratic process to defend himself against criminal
charges, although he is never told what his charges are. For ten points each,
[10h] Name this novel in which Josef K [YOH-sef KAH] dies "like a dog."
ANSWER: The Trial (accept Der Prozess)
[10e] This author of The Trial also wrote about dramatic deaths in the story "In the Penal Colony" and the short
novel The Metamorphosis.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10m] In The Metamorphosis, Gregor Samsa transforms into an insect-like creature and is killed after his father
throws one of these things at him and it lodges in his back and rots.
ANSWER: apple
19) This country's 1857 constitution incorporated the Lerdo Law, which confiscated land from the Catholic
Church. This country's Liberal Reform in the 1850s followed the Plan of Ayutla, designed by (*) Ignacio
Comonfort to oppose a dictator who sold the Gadsden Purchase to the United States. For ten points, name this
North American country that was led in the nineteenth century by Benito Juárez and Santa Anna.
ANSWER: Mexico (accept United Mexican States; accept Estados Unidos Mexicanos)
Bonus 19) Answer the following about sorceresses in Greek myths, for ten points each.
[10e] In this epic poem, the bewitching goddess Circe is repelled by the herb moly after she turns the title hero's
crew into pigs.
ANSWER: the Odyssey (accept Odysseia)
[10h] This other goddess, who presides over witchcraft and the crossroads, is accompanied by the black dog
Hecuba and the polecat Gale [gah-LAY]. She is often depicted with three faces and holding torches.
ANSWER: Hecate
[10m] This priestess of Hecate and princess of Colchis poisoned a dress to kill her ex-husband Jason's fiance
Glauce.
ANSWER: Medea
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026
Second Set 2025-26 ･ Round 1 ･ page 14 of 14
20) Two poems in this style beg, "let me hear / The name I used to run at, when a child" and declare, "I love thee
to the depth and breadth and height / my soul can reach." Poems in this style titled (*) "Yes! Call me by my
pet-name" and "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways," are organized into an octave and a sestet. A poetry
collection by Elizabeth Barrett Browning is named for these poems "From the Portuguese." For ten points, name
these fourteen-line poems.
ANSWER: sonnet (accept Sonnets from the Portuguese)
Bonus 20) A⋅F⋅Ps are proteins extracted from cod named for their ability to act like ethylene glycol and prevent this
destructive process. For ten points each,
[10e] Name this process that destroys cellular proteins when it happens to water cooled below zero degrees
Celsius.
ANSWER: freezing (accept word forms like freeze)
[10m] Antifreeze proteins are glycoproteins, which means they have one of these compounds covalently linked to
them. These compounds are the monomers of poly⋅saccharides.
ANSWER: sugars (prompt on "mono⋅saccharides;" prompt on "carbohydrates")
[10h] Importantly, antifreeze proteins work at very low concentrations, which is important to keep this quantity
from getting too high. This quantity in a plant cell equals salt molarity times R⋅T, and is equalized by turgor.
ANSWER: osmotic pressure (prompt on "pressure" alone; prompt on "turgor pressure")
The Rockford Quiz Bowl Company 2026