2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 1
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament
Round 1 – Tossups
1. A metaphor by this author compares a river that rises up in a flood and then recedes to a
stream to the extent that people should contemplate the nature of leadership. A passage by this
author is about a herald who cannot leave an extremely large palace after being entrusted with
an emperor's dying message. The narrator of a story by this author relates how the title structure
was built piecemeal to protect from northern nomads. The posthumous publication of this
author's story "The Great Wall of China" was overseen by Max Brod. A novel by this author,
which contains the parable "Before the Law," begins when two unnamed government agents
arrest the bank worker Josef K. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Trial.
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
Category: Literature - Not British or American- Any European
2. This organization's code of ethics calls for "purity of arms," inspired by one of its
predecessors' strategy of "restraint." This organization uses a policy of "disproportionate force"
against infrastructure according to the Dahiya doctrine. Until 2016, this organization had a
policy of preventing kidnappings "by all means" possible, including death, known as the
Hannibal Directive. Supporters of this organization called it the "most moral army in the
world." This organization opened fire on people trying to obtain humanitarian aid in the flour
massacre. Whistleblowers revealed that this organization tortured prisoners at the Sde Teiman
(“sed-ay te-mann”) detention camp. This organization rescued four hostages in a raid on
Nuseirat. For 10 points, name this national military of Israel.
ANSWER: Israel Defense Forces [or IDF or Tzahal; prompt on descriptions of the Israeli
military or Israeli army until “Israel” is read; prompt on Israeli Defense Forces which is a
promptable description but not the actual name]
Category: Current Events - World Canada/Aus/NZ/Misc
3. The god Ullr ("ooh-LUR") carved spells into one of these objects to allow him to sail on it
like a boat. These objects belonging to a horse are the first thing Grettir the Strong notices in the
place where he fights the undead Karr the Old. After his death, these objects of Ymir formed
the mountains of the Earth. Loki persuades Thjalfi ("thyahl-VEE") to damage one of these
objects during a meal, which results in him and his sister accompanying the trickster on his
journey to face Utgard-Loki. The breaking of one of these objects belonging to Thor's goats
causes it to end up with a limp after being resurrected. For 10 points, name these objects that
were broken for those goats to reach the marrow inside.
ANSWER: bone [or specific bones like skull; prompt on limbs like legs with "what objects in
them?"]
Category: Mythology - Norse/Germanic
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 2
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
4. Random numbers were generated by shuffling playing cards as part of an early computational
model of this process conducted by Nils Aall Barricelli. Stuart Kauffman introduced a model
that originally described this process in which "K" represents "ruggedness," called the NK
model. A tighter condition was added to the definition of Nash equilibria by John Maynard
Smith to describe a "stable strategy" named for this process. Many modern models are based on
Motoo Kimura's neutral theory of this process's "molecular" form. This process is often
modeled as movement toward the local optimum of a "fitness" or "adaptive" landscape. For 10
points, what biological process names a type of computation inspired by natural selection?
ANSWER: evolution [or evolving; or evolves; or evolutionary computation; or evolutionarily
stable strategy; or molecular evolution; prompt on natural selection before read]
Category: Science - Biology ecology/evolution
5. A ruler with this name was served by the nobleman Pandulf Ironhead, who lost two sons in
battle against Emir Abu'l-Qasim. A ruler with this name gave away a replica of the Holy Lance
at the Congress of Gniezno ("guh-nyez-no"). A ruler with this name swam to a Greek merchant
ship for safety after losing the Battle of Stilo to a Muslim army from Sicily. After escaping from
imprisonment by Berengar II, Adelaide of Italy married a ruler with this name. A ruler with this
name arranged for his son to marry the Byzantine princess Theophanu, spurring his namesake
"Renaissance." That ruler with this name defeated the Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld and
was crowned by Pope John XII in 962. For 10 points, give this name of a German king widely
regarded as the first Holy Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Otto [or Otto I; or Otto the Great; or Otto II; or Otto the Red; or Otto III; or
Ottonian Renaissance]
Category: History - European Germany 477-1750
6. A book titled for this genre features a chimeric demon who hides in a black cloud each night
before being shot down by an arrow. That book titled for this genre includes an "Initiates'
Book" that discusses the initiation of an Empress into a Buddhist convent after her son drowns.
In a book titled for this genre, an infant princess from the moon is found inside a stalk by an old
man. This genre titles narratives "of the Heike (“high-kuh”)" and "of the Bamboo Cutter." A
character marries the daughter of the Minister of the Left in a novel titled for this genre, whose
title character is banished to Suma after an affair with a concubine. Lady Aoi's ("ah-OH-ee's")
husband courts Lady Utsusemi and Lady Fujitsubo in a novel whose title is named after, for 10
points, what genre "of Genji"?
ANSWER: tales [or monogatari; or stories; or The Tale of Genji; or The Tale of the Bamboo
Cutter; or Tale of the Heike; or Genji Monogatari; or Taketori Monogatari; or Heike
Monogatari; prompt on novels or epics or prose narratives or legends]
Category: Literature - Not British or American- Any Non-European
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 3
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
7. Susie Scott argued that locations described by this word allow people to pursue "Reinvented
Identities." Locations described by this word alter people's personality through the process of
resocialization, inducing conformity through reward and punishment. This word modifies the
fertility rate that gives the expected number of children a woman will have. Marcel Mauss
likened "entire social systems" to "social facts" described by this word. Orphanages, cloisters,
and jails are among the "institutions" Erving Goffman described by this word. Social scientists
have studied the effects of unrestricted weapons use in a type of "war" named for this word. For
10 points, what word meaning "complete" or "absolute" names an autocratic "-ism" similar to
authoritarianism?
ANSWER: total [or total institutions; or total fertility rate; or total social facts; or total
prestation; or totalitarianism; or total war]
Category: Social Science - Sociology
8. During this war, Dona Jesus Dosamentes "unsexed" herself to disguise herself as a captain of
one side. The Revolt of the Polkos began after church land was nationalized during this war.
Luis Gonzaga Cuevas helped negotiate the treaty that ended this war, which was followed up by
territorial concessions in the Treaty of Mesilla ("meh-SEE-yah"). A force in this war attempted
to use "La Vomito," or yellow fever, to weaken a force that later killed the "Six Heroes." John
Riley led the Saint Patrick's battalion during this war. The winning side in this war took
Chapultepec Castle after it was reinforced by Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna. For 10 points,
name this war that was ended by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which was fought against
America's southern neighbor.
ANSWER: Mexican-American War
Category: History - World Mexico
9. This piece extensively uses the motif of a descending major ninth where the second note is
accented in a bergamask dance, sometimes called the "Dance of Clowns." This piece opens with
a series of whole-note woodwind chords in E major that progressively expand in range. A
melody beginning "C, B, short F sharp - A" follows a trumpet fanfare in a movement of this
piece. Bassoons accompany the horn melody in a nocturne from this piece that follows the song
"what hempen homespuns." This piece borrowed music from its composer's earlier concert
overture on the same subject that imitates the braying of Bottom and contains a famous
wedding march. For 10 points, name this piece composed to accompany a Shakespeare play, by
Felix Mendelssohn.
ANSWER: Incidental Music to A Midsummer Night's Dream [or Felix Mendelssohn's opus
61; or Concert Overture to A Midsummer Night's Dream; Felix Mendelssohn's opus 21 before
"concert"]
Category: Arts - Audio - Academic music non-opera 1750-1880
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 4
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
10. The axial current, which is more commonly named for this property, is conserved if there is
this sort of symmetry but is not conserved in the Adler-Bell-Jackiw ("JACK-iv") anomaly. A
Lorentz-invariant quantity with this name equals helicity for massless particles. The discovery
that an interaction had this property resolved the tau-theta puzzle. The beta decay of cobalt-60
has this property, as proven by Chien-Shiung Wu. Because it has this property and violates
charge conjugation symmetry, the decay of neutral kaons ("KAY-ons") violates CP symmetry.
Molecules with this property have nonzero optical activity and rotate the polarization of light.
For 10 points, what property of objects that cannot be superimposed on their mirror images can
be used to define handedness?
ANSWER: chirality [or word forms like chiral; or parity violation or word forms; or CP
symmetry violation or word forms until "CP" is read; or chiral symmetry; or chiral current; or
chiral anomaly; prompt on symmetry violation or asymmetry]
Category: Science - Physics particles/HE
11. John Francis Appleby made his fortune by developing a device for harvesting this crop.
Oliver Dalrymple and the Grandin Brothers owned "bonanza farms" that produced this crop.
Facilities that primarily stored this crop were modernized by an invention by Joseph Dart.
Mennonite immigrants from Russia introduced the Turkey Red variant of this crop to the US.
The Confederacy's primary center of production for this crop was Shenandoah Valley.
Regulations on facilities that primarily stored this crop were the subject of the cases Wabash v.
Illinois and Munn v. Illinois. Innovations like the McCormick reaper significantly increased this
crop's production, primarily cultivated in the Great Plains. For 10 points, name this crop
processed into flour.
ANSWER: wheat [prompt on grain]
Category: History - US economic/labor
12. Unlike other exceptions to the Madelung rule, this element has exactly zero electrons in its
valence s-orbital. This element is poisoned by barium sulfate in the Rosenmund reduction. The
Fleischmann-Pons experiment attempted to catalyze cold fusion with an electrode of this
element since it adsorbs nearly 1,000 times its volume in hydrogen at room temperature.
Rhodium, platinum, and this element are used in catalytic converters. Negishi, Suzuki, and
Heck won the 2010 Nobel Prize for their work on cross-coupling reactions catalyzed by this
element. This element is poisoned in a catalyst that hydrogenates alkynes(“al- KINES”) to
alkenes(“al-KEENS”) named for Herbert Lindlar. For 10 points, name this transition metal with
an atomic number of 46 and chemical symbol Pd.
ANSWER: palladium [or Pd until mention]
Category: Science - Chemistry mixed or misc or any non-organic
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 5
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
13. A memoir titled Life with [this artist] written with Carlton Lake recounts how he blacklisted
a former partner among art dealers to ruin her art career. A hiatus from painting in this artist's
fifties led to his poetry collection named The Burial of the Count of Orgaz. This artist was
inspired by an Afghan hound to create a 50-foot-tall sculpture located in the Chicago Loop. He
depicted a firing squad firing at nude children and women in his Massacre in Korea. A woman
wearing a red tutu sits apart from other circus performers in this artist's Family of
Saltimbanques. A work by this artist depicts a flower growing by the hand of a dead man who
still holds a sword, as well as a screaming woman holding a dead baby below a bull. For 10
points, name this painter of Guernica.
ANSWER: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Ruiz Picasso] [The first line refers to Françoise Gilot.]
Category: Arts - Visual - Painting 1851-1945
14. A fisherman with this condition tells a proud maiden who paced "by the nets on the pebbly
shore" that "you are not so fair." In a poem titled for this condition, the speaker says that only
"one man loved the pilgrim soul in you, and loved the sorrows of your changing face." Love
fled "and hid his face amid a crowd of stars" in a poem titled for this condition based on a
Ronsard sonnet. The speaker claims that "my circus animals were all on show" until this
condition set in. A poem titled for this condition imagines Maud Gonne "grey and full of sleep."
A man with this quality "is but a paltry thing, a tattered coat upon a stick" in "Sailing Towards
Byzantium." For 10 points, W. B. Yeats wrote about how "that is no country" for men with
what quality?
ANSWER: being old [or being aged; or being elderly; or "The Meditation Of The Old
Fisherman"; or "When You Are Old"; or "an aged man"; or "no country for old men"]
Category: Literature - British poetry non-Shakespeare
15. Practitioners of this religion symbolically cut open a doorway with a white-handled knife
also used for cooking. In this religion, the athame ("uh-THAW-may") is purified after being
touched by others. A text from this religion is copied and modified by each successive owner;
that text, which includes the chant Eko Eko Azarak, is the Book of Shadows. Initiates in this
religion raise a cone of power during an esbat ("ESS-bat"). Like Thelema ("thuh-LEMMA"),
this religion instructs "do what ye will," a principle known as its Rede ("reed"). The Wheel of
the Year structures this religion's seasonal festivals, which were popularized by Gerald Gardner.
This religion's two major deities are the Triple Goddess and the Horned God. For 10 points,
covens practice witchcraft in what neopagan religion?
ANSWER: Wicca [or Wiccan; prompt on The Craft; prompt on witchcraft before mention;
prompt on neopaganism before mention]
Category: Religion - Misc/Other/Cross Belief/Theology/Practice Non-literature
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 6
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
16. A form of this quantity is defined as the number of small balls needed to cover the
information contained in a larger ball and is named after Patrice Assouad. A form of this
quantity is defined as the limit of the ratio of the logarithm of the number of boxes to the
logarithm of one over the size of the boxes. The rank-nullity theorem compares different values
of this quantity for vector spaces. This quantity is the log of 3 divided by the log of 2 for the
Sierpinski triangle. Felix Hausdorff is the namesake of a form of this quantity, which is often
non-integer for fractals. This quantity is the minimum number of coordinates needed to
uniquely define a point. For 10 points, name this quantity that is one for a line and two for the
plane.
ANSWER: dimension [or fractal dimension; or Assouad dimension; or Minkowski
dimension; or upper box-counting dimension; or Hausdorff dimension]
Category: Science - Math beyond calculus curriculum
17. The protagonist of a story by this author helps his friend Elvis realize that he isn't the father
of his mistress' son. Another story by this author ends with the instructions to "put the
government cheese back in its place before your mom kills you." Beli sees a faceless man
waving at her before discovering she is pregnant with the Gangster's child in a novel by this
author, who is known for his characteristic second-person point-of-view. This author's story
"How to Date a Brown Girl" and collection This is How You Lose Her are narrated by a
recurring character who describes a fukú curse inflicted by Rafael Trujillo. Yunior de las Casas
was created by, for 10 points, what author of The Brief and Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao?
ANSWER: Junot Díaz
Category: Literature - American any genre by a nonwhite author
18. During a blizzard in 1922, a theater of this name in Washington, DC, collapsed, killing 98
people in the deadliest disaster in the city's history. It's not "banker," but the Panic of 1907 is
sometimes called the panic of these people. A baseball team of this name founded by Alexander
Cartwright in 1845 formalized 20 eponymous rules that helped codify the modern game of
baseball. A character of this surname was held to have gone missing before the publication of
an 1809 "history" that popularized his baggy-kneed pants. That character of this surname is the
purported author of Washington Irving's A History of New York. For 10 points, give this term
for the semi-legendary aristocracy of New Netherland, which also lends its name to a New York
basketball team.
ANSWER: knickerbocker [or knicks; or Diedrich Knickerbocker]
Category: Misc/Cross - Misc/Other/Cross Academic
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 7
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
19. An eight-count dance from this country that translates as "old style" employs "low to the
ground" footwork and emphasizes the accented "batter." A "long dance" from this country starts
with a row of men facing a row of women. This is the westernmost of two countries where
women dancers wear rawhide shoes called pampooties. With an eastern neighbor, this country's
dancers employ pairs of lines called heys in a dance called ceili ("KAY-lee"). Lord of the
Dance was created in this country after Michael Flatley left one that put on jigs and reels. The
bodhrán ("bow-RAN") and uilleann ("IL-yen") pipes accompany dances from this country put
on by Riverdance. For 10 points, name this country whose dances may date back to a
celebration in County Cork.
ANSWER: Ireland [Republic of Ireland; or Éire; or Poblacht na hÉireann]
Category: Arts - Misc - Ballet/Dance
20. According to Aristotle, this leader came to power a decade after the Alcmeonidae family
helped put down the revolt of Olympian Cylon. This man was the earlier of two leaders to have
proclamations etched onto tablets that pivoted around a four-sided pyramid. According to the
Suda, this leader died at the theater after suffocating under clothing that the crowd threw on him
out of praise. A debtor whose social status was below that of his creditor was forced into
slavery under laws enacted by this leader. The right for a victim's relatives to punish a murderer
was the only legislation introduced by this leader not to be repealed by Solon. For 10 points,
name this Athenian leader whose name became an adjective for very strict rules.
ANSWER: Draco [or Dracoian]
Category: History - Classical Greek/Hellenistic
21. A small cloud in this shape can form when a fast-moving object lowers the temperature of
the surrounding air. Heinrich Hertz studied how small objects moving through a solid produce
these shapes. Kruskal-Szekeres ("KRUSS-kull SEH-keh-resh") coordinates undo the general
relativistic distortion of these shapes. One over beta equals the half-angle of one of these shapes
created by Cherenkov radiation. The edges of these shapes on Minkowski diagrams show
events that can be reached by a light ray. The shock wave created by a sonic boom makes one
of these shapes named for Ernst Mach. Intersecting one of these shapes with a plane can
generate any Keplerian orbit. For 10 points, ellipses and hyperbolas are examples of what
shape's namesake "sections?"
ANSWER: cones [or vapor cones; or Hertzian cones; or light cones; or Mach cones; or conic
sections]
Category: Science - Physics any
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 8
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
22. In a story by this author, Ernest searches for someone who resembles a rock formation to
fulfill a prophecy, only for a poet to realize Ernest resembles it. The title character of a story by
this author declares, "I shall have built my monument!" before he and the family he visits are
killed by a rock slide. This author of "The Great Stone Face" and "The Ambitious Guest" wrote
a story in which Aminadab helps Aylmer ("ALE-mur") create an elixir to remove the title hand-
shaped feature from Georgiana. The protagonist of a story by this author meets a man with a
serpent-shaped staff while walking through the woods before seeing Goody Cloyse and his wife
Faith at a witches' sabbath. For 10 points, name this author of "The Birthmark" and "Young
Goodman Brown."
ANSWER: Nathaniel Hawthorne
Category: Literature - American short fiction
23. A portrait by this artist has a lily pond border containing the words "crane" and "frog,"
which serve as double entendres alluding to the woman's job as a courtesan. This artist used a
sky of deep ultramarine as the background of his portrait of Eugène Boch as The Poet. This
artist sent a portrait of himself with a pale green background as part of an exchange with Émile
Bernard. This artist displayed his collection of prints by depicting Mount Fuji in the background
of his portrait of the straw hat-wearing Julien Tanguy. Hokusai's Great Wave may have inspired
swirls in a painting showing this artist's view of cypress trees from an asylum near Saint-Rémy.
For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of The Starry Night.
ANSWER: Vincent van Gogh [Vincent Willem van Gogh]
Category: Arts - Visual - Painting 1701-1850
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 9
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament
Round 1 – Bonuses
1. The Stone of the Pregnant Woman is a massive monolith found in a city named after this
deity. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this deity who holds a spear-shaped thunderbolt with a plant-like shaft in a stele
discovered by Claude Schaeffer. The North African Sanctuary of Tophet was dedicated to this
deity and his consort.
ANSWER: Baal [or Ba'al; or Baal Hadad; or Baalbek; or Baal Hammon]
[10] Baal with Thunderbolt was excavated from this Syrian city whose final ruler was
Ammurapi. The Baal Cycle was found in this city.
ANSWER: Ugarit
[10] Ugarit was one of the cities destroyed in a 12th century BC "collapse" during the late part
of this age that followed the Stone Age.
ANSWER: Bronze Age [or Late Bronze Age; or Bronze Age Collapse]
Category: History - Archaeology
2. Federico Garcia Lorca's concept of duende inspired this poet's collection of the same name.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Harvard professor who was the US poet laureate from 2017 to 2019. This poet
wrote the collection Life on Mars.
ANSWER: Tracy K. Smith
[10] The memory of Smith's late father inspired a poem from Life on Mars titled for these
things. W. H. Auden's "Funeral Blues" says these things "are not wanted now" and tells the
reader to "put out every one."
ANSWER: stars [or "My God, It's Full of Stars"] [Smith's father worked on the Hubble Space
Telescope.]
[10] Smith translated the collection My Name Will Grow Wide Like a Tree into English despite
not speaking this language. Ezra Pound created a version of The River Merchant's Wife even
though he did not speak this language.
ANSWER: Chinese [or Hànyǔ; or Zhōngwén; or Mandarin Chinese; or Classical Chinese]
[My Name Will Grow Wide Like a Tree is by Yi Lei.]
Category: Literature - English-language by women
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 10
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
3. In a black-and-white photograph, a woman standing in one of these locations stares towards
the right while her left hand gestures at a dropped bag. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this location, the setting of a pioneering piece of video art by Martha Rosler. That
artwork is titled Semiotics of [this location].
ANSWER: kitchens [or Semiotics of the Kitchen]
[10] This photographer used kitchens as the setting of the untitled 3rd and 84th photographs in
her best-known series, which depicts unnamed women in costume. This photographer also
created the Bus Riders and Centerfolds series.
ANSWER: Cindy Sherman
[10] Sherman's best-known series subverts depictions of women in this art form. Laura Mulvey
critiqued how the "male gaze" depicts subjects such as Greta Garbo in this popular art form.
ANSWER: films [or cinema; or movies; or Untitled Film Stills; or Visual Pleasure and
Narrative Cinema]
Category: Arts - Visual - Photography or fashion/design or misc visual
4. This company announced an early attempt at a curated Internet service environment in 1983,
which largely did not come to fruition. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this manufacturer of the Aquarius home computer. Its electronics division achieved
more success providing accessories to its Barbie and Hot Wheels toy lines.
ANSWER: Mattel
[10] The Aquarius used this 8-bit processor introduced in 1976, which powers most third-
generation gaming consoles and is still used in TI graphing calculators. Zilog announced that
the manufacture of this processor will end in June 2024.
ANSWER: Zilog Z80
[10] Mattel chose the CP1600 for this game console, controlled with a numeric keypad and a
circular "control disc." Its lauded games included Baseball and Demon Attack.
ANSWER: Intellivision
Category: Misc/Cross - History of science & technology
5. A pioneering outdoor depiction of this scene was located at the top of a stairway in the
Convent of San Marco. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this scene. An angel with colorful wings is framed by an archway in Fra Angelico's
depiction of this scene.
ANSWER: the Annunciation
[10] This artist included a pickle and an apple in his painting of the Annunciation, which shows
a beam of light entering Mary's forehead from a UFO-like object.
ANSWER: Carlo Crivelli
[10] Crivelli's Annunciation is with Emidius, one of these figures. Crivelli's other depictions of
these figures for the Ascoli Piceno include Lucy holding her eyes on a plate and Jerome with a
tiny lion by his feet.
ANSWER: saints [or Saint Emidius; or Saint Lucy; or Saint Jerome]
Category: Arts - Visual - Painting pre-1500
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 11
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
6. In a system undergoing this kind of rotation, a radially displaced parcel oscillates at the
epicyclic frequency. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this kind of rotation that leads to a "winding problem" that motivated Lin and Shu's
density-wave theory. This form of rotation creates shear forces because the rotation rate varies
throughout a fluid.
ANSWER: differential rotation
[10] Differentially rotating systems should be unable to maintain this shape, leading to the
"winding problem." The Orion Arm is a component of one of these shapes.
ANSWER: spirals
[10] The differential rotation rate of the Sun's convective envelope can be measured by
observing these cold regions on its surface.
ANSWER: sunspots
Category: Science - Astronomy non space geo
7. One of these groups took its name from the psychiatric diagnosis exempting young men from
compulsory military service, DG 307. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these groups. The dissident Mejla ("MAIL-uh") Hlavsa founded one of these groups
in Czechoslovakia, popular among so-called máničky ("maan-ITCH-key").
ANSWER: rock bands [or underground rock bands; or alternative rock bands; or
psychedelic rock bands; prompt on bands or music groups by asking, "In what genre did they
perform?"]
[10] This fan of Hlavsa's band, The Plastic People of the Universe, helped draft Charter 77 after
the band's arrest. This politician later succeeded Gustáv Husák as president.
ANSWER: Václav Havel
[10] Havel claimed he was inspired to run for president by the music of a band named for this
material, fronted by Lou Reed. Czechoslovakia's peaceful 1989 revolution and 1992 "divorce"
were also named for this fabric.
ANSWER: velvet [or The Velvet Underground; or Velvet Revolution; or Velvet Divorce]
Category: History - European Not France/Germany/Russia 1901-present
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 12
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
8. While in this situation, a character starts thinking about dinosaurs, and realizes his death
"would be a deliberate loss to earth of good material." For 10 points each:
[10] Describe the situation which, in a climatic scene of A Pair of Blue Eyes, Henry Knight
finds himself in before he is rescued with the help of Elfride's underwear.
ANSWER: hanging on a cliff [or cliffhanger; or similar descriptions; prompt on being in
danger or dying]
[10] This author's novel A Pair of Blue Eyes is the origin of the term "cliffhanger." He set
novels like Far from the Madding Crowd in a fictionalized Wessex.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
[10] In this novel, Sarah Woodruff takes solitary walks along the cliffside after she is shunned
by the residents of Lyme Regis. This John Fowles novel ends in its own unique way by giving
the reader multiple endings to pick from.
ANSWER: The French Lieutenant's Woman
Category: Literature - British fiction
9. This particle's "sombrero potential" allows its field to take on nonzero values everywhere.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this "god particle" which confers mass on other particles through its namesake
mechanism.
ANSWER: Higgs boson [or Higgs mechanism]
[10] The 1964 PRL papers that first theorized the Higgs boson used the fact that this physicist's
theorem requires spin-zero particles to be produced by spontaneous symmetry breaking.
ANSWER: Jeffrey Goldstone [or Nambu-Goldstone bosons]
[10] The Higgs boson's mass, which cannot be calculated from the Standard Model, was
discovered to be around 125 billion of these units. The mass of fundamental particles is
typically reported in this unit prefixed by "kilo-," "mega-," or "giga-."
ANSWER: electronvolts [or eV; or kiloelectronvolts or KeV; or megaelectronvolts or MeV;
or gigaelectronvolts or GeV; or any of the previous answers divided by c squared]
Category: Science - Physics particles/HE
10. This philosopher analyzed three spheres of right in Elements of the Philosophy of Right. For
10 points each:
[10] Johann Fichte's terminology of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis is often wrongly used to
explain what German idealist philosopher's dialectic?
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
[10] Hegel's three spheres of right are abstract right, morality, and this right to family life and
participation in civil society under the State. You may give the original German name or a two-
word English translation.
ANSWER: sittlichkeit (“ZITT-lish-kite”) [or ethical life; or ethical order]
[10] The Philosophy of Right argues that even the State is subordinate to the "world" form of
this concept. Hegel's lectures on this concept introduced the term "Volksgeist."
ANSWER: history [or world-history; or Lectures on the Philosophy of History]
Category: Philosophy - 1601-1900
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 13
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
11. Two of these characters, who are given the names Flapper and Raspberry, are studied by the
protagonist of a novella who determines they write using chains of semagrams with no linear
sequence. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these characters in a novella whose language is studied by Dr. Gary Donnelly.
ANSWER: heptapods [prompt on aliens]
[10] Louise Banks deciphers Heptapod A and Heptapod B in this novella by Ted Chiang. In this
novella, which inspired the movie Arrival, Louise feels little regret for giving birth to her
daughter despite knowing she will tragically die.
ANSWER: Story of Your Life
[10] The theme of Story of Your Life derives in part from the introduction of this novel, in
which Billy Pilgrim travels through time and witnesses the firebombing of Dresden.
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five
Category: Literature - American short fiction
12. In a retelling from A Wonder-Book For Girls and Boys, Nathaniel Hawthorne added a now-
oft-repeated tragedy regarding this figure's daughter. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this figure from Greek myth who, in Hawthorne's version, accidentally turns his
daughter to gold.
ANSWER: Midas
[10] Sheila Murnaghan highlighted how Hawthorne's retelling of this Greek myth downplays its
severity as a child-like mistake. The original version of this myth centered on a pithos, which
Erasmus mistranslated in his retelling.
ANSWER: Pandora's Box [or answers describing the myth of Pandora opening the jar or
box]
[10] Hawthorne's retelling of Circe's story has Odysseus request that this figure be changed
back to a human along with his men. This first king of Latium was turned into a woodpecker by
Circe.
ANSWER: Picus
Category: Mythology - Greek/Roman
13. A "language of symbols and formulas" used in this activity was developed by Joculator
Basiliensis, who reduced math and music to a common denominator. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this activity that is studied by Plinio Designori in the country of Castalia. This
activity is almost banned by Pope Pius XV in a novel mostly written during the 1930s.
ANSWER: the glass bead game [or glasperlenspiel]
[10] Joseph Knecht becomes "Magister Ludi," or master of the game, in this author's novel The
Glass Bead Game.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
[10] Mirroring Hesse's views, Fritz Tegularius in The Glass Bead Game is a representation of
this person, as opposed to Father Jacobus, or Jakob Burckhardt. Hesse's novel Peter Camenzind
contrasts the ethics of this person with those of Saint Francis of Assisi.
ANSWER: Friedrich Nietzsche
Category: Literature - Not British or American- German
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 14
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
14. This organism is thought to have lived in hydrothermal vents between 3.5 to 3.8 billion
years ago. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this organism. This single-celled organism is known to have enzymes like DNA
polymerase due to its presence in all modern organisms.
ANSWER: Last Universal Common Ancestor [or LUCA; or cenancestor; prompt on
descriptions]
[10] LUCA is thought to have produced acetyl-CoA using this pathway, in which two carbon
dioxide molecules are fixed in parallel using CO dehydrogenase and acetyl-CoA synthase.
ANSWER: Wood-Ljungdahl pathway [or reductive acetyl-CoA pathway; or WL pathway]
[10] These graphs represent evolutionary relationships between ancestors and descendants.
Branch points on these diagrams represent where lineages split from each other.
ANSWER: phylogenetic tree [or evolutionary tree; or phylogeny; prompt on tree of life;
prompt on chronogram; prompt on dendrogram; prompt on phylogram; reject "cladogram"]
Category: Science - Biology ecology/evolution
15. This ruler's sons take turns to tell him wondrous stories in a papyrus discovered by Henry
Westcar. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ruler who shipped stone from Tuva for a building project. Herodotus claimed
this ruler forced his daughter into prostitution and demanded that she be paid in blocks of
limestone.
ANSWER: Khufu [or Cheops]
[10] This official described the transport of limestone blocks to Giza, where they might have
been used to clad Khufu's pyramid. Papyri containing this man's diary were excavated in 2013
by Pierre Tallet.
ANSWER: Merer [or Diary of Merer]
[10] This statue at Giza depicts a half-animal, half-lion figure. Napoleon was falsely accused of
breaking this statue's nose with a cannonball.
ANSWER: Sphinx [or Great Sphinx of Giza]
Category: History - World Ancient Egypt
16. Answer the following about things Japan has tried to counter deflation, for 10 points each.
[10] By reducing this quantity, Japan decreased the cost of borrowing money. The Bank of
Japan finally raised this quantity above zero in 2024.
ANSWER: interest rates [or federal funds rate]
[10] When reducing interest rates didn't work, Japan pioneered the use of this policy, in which a
central bank buys financial assets to increase liquidity.
ANSWER: quantitative easing [or QE; prompt on monetary policy]
[10] The Bank of Japan’s interest rate targets are done in reference to this part of the money
market. The rate in this market tends to be the lowest rate at which banks lend.
ANSWER: overnight market
Category: Social Science - Economics
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 15
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
17. This composer's Grand, Grand Festival Overture includes parts for four rifles, three
vacuum cleaners, and a floor polisher. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this English composer of sets of four Cornish, Irish, Scottish, and Welsh dances.
This composer wrote a concert suite based on his score for The Bridge on the River Kwai.
ANSWER: Malcolm Arnold [Sir Malcolm Henry Arnold]
[10] This composer's experimental piece Water Walk calls for household appliances like a
pressure cooker and bathtub. The pianist sits silently in front of the piano in this composer's
4'33".
ANSWER: John Cage [John Milton Cage Jr.]
[10] "Noise-making" instruments commonly found in the home, such as milk bottles and
typewriters, appear in a surrealist Leonide Massine ballet set to music by this composer based
on a Jean Cocteau setting.
ANSWER: Erik Satie [the ballet is Parade]
Category: Arts - Audio - Academic music non-opera 1881-present
18. In 2016, archaeologists unearthed the remains of women at a location numbered 72 near this
site, disproving it was only accessible to men. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this settlement where women overwhelmingly domesticated crops near timber
circles called Woodhenge.
ANSWER: Cahokia
[10] These burial locations, one of which included 72, include effigy examples exemplified by
the Great Serpent in Ohio.
ANSWER: burial mounds [or tumulus; or tumuli]
[10] Archaeological evidence suggests women played a large role in the construction of mounds
by this American Southwest culture around its settlement of Snaketown. This culture built the
most complex canal system in the pre-Columbian era.
ANSWER: Hohokam
Category: History - US women's
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 16
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
19. Ambrose Crowley discovered a place with this characteristic whose characteristic
landmarks are Mount Charles and Prince George Point. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this characteristic of locations such as Pepys Island. One place with this
characteristic supposedly discovered by James Cook was covered by black pixels on Google
Maps until 2012.
ANSWER: phantom islands [or descriptive answers indicating they are islands that don't
exist]
[10] The phantom island Isle Phelipeaux was most likely a duplication of Isle Royale ("royal")
located in this body of water, the largest freshwater lake by surface area in the world.
ANSWER: Lake Superior
[10] A fata morgana most likely led Benjamin Morrell to spot a land he dubbed "New South
Greenland" in this sea. The Ellsworth Mountains are near this dangerous sea where Ernest
Shackleton's Endurance froze.
ANSWER: Weddell Sea
Category: Geography - Australia/NZ/Oceania
20. The Unsold approximation explains this interaction in terms of ionization energies. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this interaction. The attractive term of the Lennard-Jones potential describes this
interaction.
ANSWER: London dispersion forces [or dispersion forces; or London forces; or LDF;
prompt on van der Waals forces; prompt on intermolecular forces or IMF]
[10] While London dispersion forces dominate in nonpolar molecules, this interaction is
dominant in molecules that contain its namesake element and an electronegative donor. This
intermolecular force is responsible for cohesion and adhesion in water.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonding [or H bonding]
[10] The dispersion force between two molecules is proportional to this quantity, explaining
why larger molecules have stronger dispersion forces. This quantity measures how easily
electrons can be redistributed in the presence of an external electric field.
ANSWER: electric polarizability [prompt on alpha; reject "polarization"; reject "magnetic
polarizability"]
Category: Science - Chemistry physical
2024 IQBT National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 Page 17
© International Quiz Bowl Tournaments, LLC
Terms for usage & distribution of these questions are found in the IQBT host licensing agreement. Questions
may not be used for profit without permission from IQBT. Questions may not be used for artificial intelligence
or machine learning training.
21. Horse manure and the microclimate created by this place caused the "pink of the fields"
mushroom to be cultivated in the 1800s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this place to which bones from the Holy Innocents cemetery were transferred,
stabilizing a sinking city.
ANSWER: Paris catacombs [or Catacombs of Paris; or Catacombes de Paris]
[10] People with this hobby installed an underground movie theater and bar in the Paris
catacombs. Catacombs are a major target for people with this hobby, whose name is
concatenated to urbex.
ANSWER: urban exploration
[10] In this city's Capuchin Catacombs, cadavers would be moved to a storage shelf if the
corpse's family stopped paying a subscription. This city is home to a hunting lodge called the
Zisa.
ANSWER: Palermo
Category: Geography - Europe
22. John A. Burns was the first member of this party to be elected Governor of Hawai'i. For 10
points each:
[10] Name this party, which experienced a namesake revolution in 1954, where it won a
majority in Hawai'i's Territorial Legislature over the Republicans.
ANSWER: Democratic Party [or Democrats]
[10] This Democrat, elected to the legislature in 1954, later became Hawai'i's first
representative in Congress after it gained statehood. Before Kamala Harris, he was the highest-
ranking Asian American politician in US history.
ANSWER: Daniel Inouye [Daniel Ken Inouye]
[10] Many of the Democrats elected in 1954, including Inouye, were veterans of this regiment
in World War II. This unit was mostly composed of Nisei and used the motto "Go For Broke."
ANSWER: 442nd Infantry Regiment
Category: History - US political/government 1865-present