Prison Bowl XVII: The Rise of the Emos
Head Edited by Evan Schleck, assisted by Dune Joerg. Section Edited by Evan Schleck, Dune Joerg, Maggie Sun,
Jun Lowenhar, Theodore Kronby, Sam Shottes, Walker Varghese, and Kieran Torpey. Written by the Hunter College
High School Quiz Bowl team (Evan Schleck, Dune Joerg, Jun Lowenhar, Walker Varghese, Sam Shottes, Theodore
Kronby, Kieran Torpey, Jesse Han, Camille Pimentel, Miles Lee, Leni Brenner, Sam Vieira-Fox, Aayaan
Khandelwal, Maya Barnes, Anne Pospisil, Fahian Joy, Margot Kuban, Diego Muntzel-Perez, Roger Lin, Aayush
Singhvi, Joshua Randall, Maggie Sun, Wilson Riehl, and Wesley Sylvan). Special thanks to Ms. Caitlin Samuel, Mx.
Asher Jaffe, Olin Bose, Khugan Chan, Eric Chang, Hazel Depreist-Sullivan, Jacob Hardin-Bernhardt, Fahian Joy,
Matthew Kohn, Daniel Ma, Sam/Cypress Macchi, Aum Mundhe, Pedro Juan Orduz, and Moxie Strom.
Packet 1
1.
The “Three-State Strategy” supported the passage of this legislation. Carolyn Maloney introduced this
legislation eleven times years after it was passed in the House with support from Martha Griffiths. Opponents
of this legislation argued that it would expand the (*) draft. One person formed STOP and the Eagle Forum to
oppose this legislation. Virginia ratified this legislation in 2020, after it fell short of a 1979 deadline. Phyllis Schlafly
opposed, for 10 points, what proposed constitutional amendment that would prohibit gender-based discrimination?
ANSWER: Equal Rights Amendment <ES>
Bonus
Characters in this musical become honorary Newfoundlanders after kissing a fish. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this musical in which the townspeople of Gander welcome the stranded passengers of planes forced to
land there.
ANSWER: Come From Away
[10] The island of Newfoundland is referred to by this nickname, which forms part of the title of Come From Away’s
opening number.
ANSWER: The Rock [accept “Welcome to the Rock”]
[10] The character Beverly says, “the one thing I loved more than anything was used as the bomb,” when singing
about this event. The planes are forced to land in Gander following this terrorist attack in the United States.
ANSWER: 9/11 [or September Eleventh Attacks, accept equivalents] <WV>
2.
Many common misconceptions about these organisms originated in a paper by Rudolf Schenkel. In one
national park, the presence of these animals has been shown to increase the population of trout. One of these
animals named “Old Gray Guy” reduced the risk of inbreeding depression by swimming across (*) Lake
Superior. Reintroduction of a subspecies of this organism to North Carolina was hampered by crossbreeding with
coyotes. These mammals have been reintroduced in Yellowstone and Isle Royale National Parks. For 10 points,
name this canine that hunts in namesake “packs”.
ANSWER: wolves [accept wolf; accept Canis lupus] <JH>
Bonus
Roald Dahl once wrote that these people “skim” instead of walking. For 10 points each,
[10] Name the profession held by Parker in The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. In another novel, a character with this
profession meets Lord Halifax and reflects on his own “dignity.”
ANSWER: butler
[10] Stevens, the butler in this novel, is unaware that Miss Kenton is in love with him. In this novel, Stevens
reminisces about his recently deceased employer, who is revealed to have been a Nazi sympathizer.
ANSWER: The Remains of the Day
[10] This author won a Booker Prize for writing The Remains of the Day. This Japanese-British novelist also wrote
Klara and the Sun and Never Let Me Go.
ANSWER: Kazuo Ishiguro <JTL>
3.
Under quarterback Will Howard, a college team from this state had only one loss in 2024, to Oregon. A team
from this state that had a 0-16 (“oh and sixteen”) season in 2017 confusingly wears orange helmets. Deshaun
Watson plays for that team in this state. Under coach (*) Ryan Day, a college football team from this state beat
Notre Dame to win the 2025 NCAA championship. A team from this state lost to the Rams in Super Bowl LVI
under quarterback Joe Burrow. The Buckeyes play in, for 10 points, what home state of the Cleveland Browns and
the Cincinnati Bengals?
ANSWER: Ohio [accept The Ohio State University, prompt on OSU] <ES>
Bonus
One story from this polity involves a boy hiding a fox while it tears him apart. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this Ancient Greek city state, which was led in part by the gerousia, or council of elders.
ANSWER: Sparta
[10] This military training program was compulsory for Spartan youths from 7 to 21. The first age category of this
system, Paides, saw trainees expected to steal their food, but punished when caught.
ANSWER: Agoge (“ah-goh-gay”)
[10] Sparta’s two kings were from two families both descended from this mythical Greek hero, notable for
completing the twelve labors.
ANSWER: Hercules [or Heracles] <TK>
4.
A pukao may appear atop some artworks made of this material which typically rest on platforms called ahu.
Artworks made of this material at La Venta are depicted with helmets, and have distinctively flat noses. This
material was used to make Salsal and Shah Mama, two (*) Buddhas that overlooked the Bamiyan Valley. The
Diquís people likely made spheres out of this material. Eight birds were carved from this material at Great
Zimbabwe. The Olmecs carved massive heads out of, for 10 points, what hard material also used to make the Easter
Island moai?
ANSWER: stone [accept specific types of stone, such as soapstone, tuff, basalt, trachyte, scoria, sandstone, and
limestone] <ES>
Bonus
For 10 points each, answer some questions about Maxwell’s demon.
[10] By allowing hot particles of a gas to pass through a door without doing work, the demon decreases entropy,
violating this statement.
ANSWER: second law of thermodynamics
[10] The Brownian ratchet, a perpetual motion machine, similar to Maxwell’s demon, was described by this
physicist in his Lectures on Physics.
ANSWER: Richard Feynman
[10] This scientist was the first to refer to Maxwell’s thought experiment as a “demon.” A unit named for this British
scientist was once defined by the triple point of water.
ANSWER: William Thomson, 1st Baron Lord Kelvin [accept either underlined part] <ES>
5.
In this story, a woman who wears a green kerchief lets her daughter tap dance. A character in this story
reminisces about a past relationship with an early holder of Coca-Cola stock who carved his initials into a
watermelon. This story’s title is said by the “fat boy with the happy laugh,” (*) Red Sammy Butts. A woman in
this story who hides a cat in a basket is called a good woman, “if it had been somebody there to shoot her every
minute of her life.” For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic short story in which the Misfit kills the grandmother,
by Flannery O’Connor.
ANSWER: “A Good Man Is Hard To Find” <TK>
Bonus
For 10 points each, answer some questions about Christian civilizations in Africa.
[10] This kingdom’s capital was renamed São Salvador in an attempt to establish a new diocese. This kingdom’s
Afonso I sent a letter to king John III of Portugal requesting the regulation of the slave trade.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Kongo
[10] This region held the Christian kingdoms of Alodia and Makuria. This region’s Coptic kingdoms remained
independent long after the Arab conquest of Egypt.
ANSWER: Nubia [do not accept or prompt on “Sudan”]
[10] This modern-day country was among the first to convert to Christianity as the ancient kingdom of Aksum. This
country was also known as Abyssinia.
ANSWER: Ethiopia <WV>
6.
In an ancient religious practice, these figures would be impersonated via a medium called a shi. The Jesa
ritual centers on these non-divine figures whose names appear on shinwi, or dedicated household tablets.
Green dumplings made from Chinese mugwort are eaten on a holiday dedicated to these figures. Families
may burn (*) fake money as an offering to these figures during the Qingming Festival, also known as
Tomb-Sweeping Day. The Confucian concept of filial piety often manifests itself in the worship of, for 10 points,
what figures that are usually deceased family members?
ANSWER: ancestors <ES>
Bonus
In 1947, this dam’s name was changed from Boulder Dam. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this dam constructed on the Arizona/Nevada border that turns part of the Colorado River into Lake
Mead.
ANSWER: Hoover Dam
[10] Built on the Columbia River, this dam creates Franklin Delano Roosevelt Lake and is directly upstream from
Chief Joseph Dam.
ANSWER: Grand Coulee Dam
[10] Built at the foot of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument near Page, Arizona, this dam also
straddles the Colorado River and is more than 1500 feet from side to side, making it longer than the Hoover Dam .
ANSWER: Glen Canyon Dam <JR>
7.
On Earth, this element is 4 neutrons heavier than its most common isotope in the broader universe due to the
decay of an isotope that decays into this element through electron capture less than 11 percent of the time.
The isotope that that decays into this element most typical form is (*) Calcium-40. This element can be isolated
easily using a fractional distillation of air, because it is the third most common gas in the atmosphere. On Earth, this
element is heavier than potassium, despite potassium having one more proton. For 10 points, name this third-lightest
noble gas, with 18 protons and atomic symbol Ar.
Answer: Argon [accept Ar before mention] <KT>
Bonus
This humanitarian charity has come under fire for denying aid to LGBTQ individuals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Protestant organization and church known for its bell ringers who collect donations.
ANSWER: The Salvation Army
[10] This evangelist and media personality first became acquainted with religion through her mother, who worked in
Salvation Army kitchens. More famous is this woman's reported kidnapping in 1926, by which time she had become
known for her radio broadcasts.
ANSWER: Aimee Semple McPherson [or Sister Aimee]
[10] McPherson publicly supported William Jennings Bryan in his prosecution of this Tennessee high school
teacher, who was represented by Clarence Darrow in a trial sometimes named for monkeys.
ANSWER: John T. Scopes [accept Scopes Monkey Trial] <DJ>
8.
The final poem of a collection by this man describes a youth who “climbs alone, on the mountains of primal
grief.” In one poem, this man wrote that the title object, “would not glisten like a wild beast’s fur” if it were
not “suffused with brilliance.” In that sonnet by this man, he describes the (*) “curved breast,” “placid hips and
thighs” and “legendary head” of the title object. This man opened his most famous collection with the line, “Who, if
I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?” For 10 points, name this Austrian poet who wrote “Archaic
Torso of Apollo” and The Duino Elegies.
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke <SS>
Bonus
This figure, given the name Viviane in one work, seals a wizard in a cave after stealing his power. For 10 points
each,
[10] Name this figure, the teacher and guardian of Lancelot. This figure gives Lancelot a magic ring that provides
resistance against enchantment.
ANSWER: Lady of the Lake [accept Nimue]
[10] In another story, the Lady of the Lake grants this man the sword Excalibur after his original sword breaks in a
duel. This legendary king of England led the Knights of the Round Table.
ANSWER: King Arthur
[10] After the Battle of Camlann, the Lady of the Lake brings the dying King Arthur to this island, his final resting
place.
ANSWER: Avalon <ML>
9.
John Curtin held this position during World War II. One holder of this position implemented universal
health care before Sir John Kerr dismissed him. After she was accused of sexism by Tony Abbott, the first
and only woman to hold this office delivered the (*) “misogyny speech.” A holder of this office who proclaimed
that he was “all the way with LBJ,” disappeared while swimming in the ocean. That holder of this position from the
Liberal Party succeeded Robert Menzies. For 10 points, name this position held by Julia Gillard (“jill-ARD”), Gough
(“goff”) Whitlam, and Harold Holt, the leader of a parliament based in Canberra.
ANSWER: Prime Minister of Australia <JTL>
Bonus
This organism can boil the water around it with its punch, producing cavitation bubbles up to 4,000 degrees Celsius.
For 10 points:
[10] Name this rainbow-colored sea creature capable of perceiving many more colors than humans. It lives in
shallow, warm waters, especially around Southeast Asia and Central America.
ANSWER: mantis shrimp [accept Stomatopoda]
[10] Mantis shrimp’s incredible color vision comes from the large quantities of these structures found in the eye.
Humans have three types of these structures, while mantis shrimp have 16.
ANSWER: cones
[10] This organism’s incredible vision, driven by its five types of cones, allows it to better spot flowers. The
monarch variety of these organisms is orange and black and poisonous to birds.
ANSWER: Butterflies [accept Lepidoptera] <WS>
10.
In this film, a man shoots a Coca-Cola machine to extract coins for use in a payphone. The tune “When
Johnny Comes Marching Home Again” accompanies scenes in this film of an airplane flying over mountains.
In this film, Alexei de Sadeski covertly photographs the (*) Big Board, a large map in a room dominated by a
circular light. A Texan pilot waves his hat as he falls to his death in this film. Peter Sellers played three characters in
this film, including a scientist who exclaims, “Mein Fuhrer, I can walk!” Vera Lynn’s “We’ll Meet Again” and
nuclear explosions end, for 10 points, what Stanley Kubrick film?
ANSWER: Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb <WV>
Bonus
For 10 points each, answer some questions about feuding families in literature.
[10] The historical basis for these two families was mentioned in Dante’s Purgatorio as an example of feuding
medieval families. These two major families later featured in Romeo and Juliet.
ANSWER: Montague and Capulet
[10] One of these two families shelter Huckleberry Finn before engaging in a deadly fight with the other over the
eloping of Sophia and Harney.
ANSWER: Shepherdson and Grangerford
[10] In a novel by Mario Puzo, a character with this surname murders NYPD captain Mark McCluskey and flees to
Sicily. Characters with this surname in that novel feud with the Tattaglia and Barzini families, among others.
ANSWER: Corleone (The novel is The Godfather.) <ML>
11.
While serving as governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney struggled with this phenomenon being zero.
This phenomenon’s cost-push type causes wage spirals. This phenomenon is plotted in the short-run against
(*) unemployment by Bill Phillips in his namesake curve. During World War Two, the Hungarian pengő experienced
the “hyper” form of this phenomenon. For 10 points, name this economic concept that may be measured by changes
in the Consumer Price Index, and refers to an overall increase in prices.
ANSWER: inflation [or inflation rate; or price inflation; or Cost-Push Inflation; prompt on descriptions such as
increase in price [levels] before last line] <TK>
Bonus
You are learning about artificial intelligence, for 10 points each:
[10] You might start by making one of these structures, whose activation function when running backpropagation is
a bounded logistic function.
ANSWER: Neural Networks
[10] Later, you might learn about these programs, which use several layers of Attention and Multilayer perceptrons
to generate text from a given prompt.
ANSWER: Large Language Models [accept LLMs]
[10] This program is a widely-used LLM developed by OpenAI, and is banned in many schools for violating
academic integrity.
ANSWER: ChatGPT <AK>
12.
During this conflict, Charles Hamilton led eleven men into a ditch before firing on them in the Marais des
Cygnes (“mar-eye day sin”) Massacre. The shooting of Charles Dow during this conflict led to the Wakarusa
war. During this conflict, a day after capturing prisoners in a raid, Henry Pate was himself captured at the
battle of (*) Black Jack. Boston residents sent rifles called “Beecher’s Bibles” to one side in this conflict. After
criticizing Andrew Butler in a speech about this conflict, Charles Sumner was nearly caned to death. For 10 points,
name this conflict in a namesake state where John Brown led men against the pro slavery “border ruffians.”
ANSWER: Bleeding Kansas [accept equivalents mentioning Kansas] <JH/SS>
Bonus
The soloist enters unusually early in this composer’s E minor violin concerto. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this German composer, whose sister Fanny frequently played his Songs Without Words. This composer is
probably best known for the wedding march he wrote for A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy
[10] When he was 16, Mendelssohn composed this chamber piece in E-flat major, written for an atypical number of
strings.
ANSWER: String Octet in E-flat major
[10] Mendelssohn used a “short-long” “snap” rhythm in his third symphony to evoke the music of this country. A
trip to this country inspired Mendelssohn to write a concert overture in B minor.
ANSWER: Scotland <ES>
13.
In that edition, the novel’s author included the chapter “Quantity, Quality, and Morality” in a collection of
essays titled for this novel revisited. In this novel, shocks are delivered when certain people look at colorful
birds in books, and phrases such as “civilization is sterilization” are taught to children in their (*) sleep. A
character in this novel hopes that his exile to the Falklands will improve his writing. The novel opens describing “a
squat grey building of only thirty-four stories” and the Bokanovsky Process. For 10 points, name this novel about a
dystopian future written by Aldous Huxley.
ANSWER: Brave New World <LF>
Bonus
This man is often referred to as the “father of the periodic table”. For 10 points:
[10] Name this man who organized the 63 known elements into a table based on chemical properties. His position as
the head of Russia’s Archive of Weights and measures led to the myth that he instituted the 40% alcohol minimum
for vodka.
ANSWER: Dmitri Mendeleev
[10] Mendeleev noticed a gap in his table due to the fact that this element had not yet been discovered. He bestowed
it with the provisional name of “eka-aluminum”.
ANSWER: gallium
[10] The existence of gallium was confirmed just four years later by use of this technique. This technique showed
bands in the violet region of ore containing gallium, which were unexplained by any known elements.
ANSWER: spectroscopy <CP>
14.
A book credited to this deity is said to contain spells that allow the caster to speak with animals and perceive
the gods; that book is guarded by serpents and hidden in a river. This deity gambled in order to win an extra
five days of the year from (*) Khonsu in order for Nut to give birth. It’s not Ma’at, but this god stood on the side of
Ra’s solar barque during his nightly journey through the underworld. This god is frequently depicted with the head
of an ibis or baboon, which are this god’s sacred animals. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god of writing, science,
art, and knowledge.
ANSWER: Thoth <LB>
Bonus
This group moved its troops north of the Litani River following a November 2024 ceasefire agreement. For 10
points each,
[10] Name this Lebanese Shia organization whose leader Hassan Nasrallah was killed during a 2024 war with Israel.
ANSWER: Hezbollah
[10] In 2023, Hezbollah purchased thousands of these devices from BAC, a shell company operated by Mossad.
Israel invaded Lebanon after a coordinated attack caused a large number of these devices to explode.
ANSWER: pagers or beepers [also accept walkie-talkies]
[10] From 2022 to 2025, a caretaker government governed Lebanon, as this position was empty. This political
position, always held by a Maronite Christian, is currently held by Joseph Aoun.
ANSWER: President of Lebanon <ES>
15.
The Ulysses spacecraft passed an object originating in this region. The proposed Whipple observatory aimed
to observe objects in this region. A hypothesized object could theoretically cause mass extinctions on Earth by
passing through this region. The WISE mission did not detect evidence for the existence of a theorized gas
giant named (*) Tyche in this region. This region surrounds a disc-shaped interior region named for Hills. This
region may be the origin of an object with a 2400-year period, the comet Hale–Bopp. Long-period comets may
originate in, for 10 points, what icy region that extends beyond the Kuiper Belt?
ANSWER: Opik-Oort Cloud <LB>
Bonus
One goddess gave this person a bold heart and steady knees. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this princess of Scheria (“skeh-REE-uh”). The aforementioned goddess appeared to this woman in a
vision, telling her to do laundry at the seashore.
ANSWER: Nausicaa
[10] At the seashore, Nausicaa meets this hero, the namesake of Homer’s second epic. This character meets
Nausicaa after leaving Calypso’s island, where he was kept for seven years.
ANSWER: Odysseus [accept Ulysses]
[10] The first four books of the Odyssey center on this son of Odysseus, who learns from Menelaos that Odysseus is
still alive after not seeing him for twenty years.
ANSWER: Telemachus <WV>
16.
In this city, a trial by fire led to the arrest of a false prophet who established a Republic in this city. The
ending of a conspiracy in this city led to the hanging of the Archbishop of Pisa from this city’s central plaza.
After a war against Gregory XI, the (*) Albizzi struggled to control this city. Woolworkers revolted in this city,
which preceded the revolt of Ciompi. After the Ciompi revolt, oligarchs ruled this city. Machiavelli was banished
from this city. For 10 points, Cosimo de’ Medici ruled what city, whose namesake republic was succeeded by the
Grand Duchy of Tuscany?
ANSWER: Florence [or Firenze, the Republic of Florence, or the Duchy of Florence] <SVF>
Bonus
This painting inspired a work by Kerry James Marshall in which a scene depicting a group of Black people at sea is
framed by rope and nets. For 10 points each:
[10] The center of this painting features a lone man on a storm-battered fishing boat. A ship and a waterspout can be
seen in the distance while sharks circle in the foreground of this painting.
ANSWER: The Gulf Stream
[10] This American painter of The Gulf Stream frequently featured sharks and boating scenes in his depictions of
seaside life in New England and the Bahamas.
ANSWER: Winslow Homer
[10] Some of Homer’s earliest works dealt with this war, often depicting men in grey uniforms. A Visit from the Old
Mistress shows a former slave-owner visiting her freed slaves in the aftermath of this war.
ANSWER: American Civil War <JTL>
17.
The current deputy director of this organization previously called for it to be “disbanded immediately” on his
podcast. A leader of this organization claimed he did not want to “thrust it deeper into the fray” upon
announcing that he would step down at the end of the (*) Biden administration. Brian Driscoll briefly led this
organization following the resignation of its director, Christopher Wray. In January 2025, executives from this
agency were fired based on their prosecutions of January 6 rioters. Kash Patel currently leads, for 10 points, what
domestic law enforcement agency?
ANSWER: Federal Bureau of Investigation <ES>
Bonus
In this story, Freddy Malins shows up drunk to the Misses Morkan’s Christmas party. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this story in which Mr. Bartell D’Arcy’s rendition of “The Lass of Aughrim” causes Gretta Conroy to
remember her youthful love for Michael Furey.
ANSWER: “The Dead”
[10] Bartell D’Arcy plays this instrument while singing “The Lass of Aughrim,” as do the Misses Morkan. In “A
Mother,” a different story from Dubliners, Kathleen plays this keyboard instrument in a concert series.
ANSWER: piano
[10] In his speech at dinner, Gabriel Conroy asserts that Ireland “has no tradition which…it should guard so
jealously” as this concept. The Greek myth of Baucis and Philemon exemplifies the virtue of this concept.
ANSWER: hospitality [accept xenia] <ES>
18.
The thermodynamic basis for this law relies on the fact that the action described by this law can be
approximated as adiabatic. The torsional analog of this law has a negative sign before a torsional constant
measured in newton meters per radian. This law can be generalized with (*) Poisson's ratio and Young’s
modulus in an isotropic material. When combined with Newton’s second law of motion, this law can model a simple
harmonic oscillator. For 10 points, name this law, which states that negative k times x is equal to the restoring force
of a spring.
Answer: Hooke’s Law <KT>
Bonus
For 10 points each, answer the following about trade in East Africa.
[10] This East Bantu language is widely spoken in East Africa in countries on its namesake coast. This language was
heavily influenced by Arab merchants who brought Islam to the region.
ANSWER: Swahili [accept Kiswahili]
[10] This sultanate was split off from the Omani empire after the death of Said ibn Sultan. This sultanate’s namesake
island was captured by the British during a war lasting less than one hour.
ANSWER: Sultanate of Zanzibar
[10] This legendary founder of this earlier sultanate was the Persian Ali ibn al-Hassan Shirazi. This sultanate was
forced to pay tribute to the Portuguese following Vasco da Gama’s voyages.
ANSWER: Kilwa Sultanate <WV>
19.
Many of these works feature a melody beginning with a rising perfect fourth and stepwise return. A composer
quoted the piece “Wir danken dir” in two movements of one of these works. One composer likely paid tribute
to Johannes Ockeghem in one of these works “without a name;” the hymn “Pange Lingua” and the secular
song (*) “L’homme armé” inspired another one of these works by the same composer, Josquin des Prez. A 27-part
work of this type includes a three-part Kyrie and D major versions of Gloria and Sanctus. A B minor composition by
Bach is an example of, for 10 points, what choral setting of the Catholic liturgy?
ANSWER: mass [accept Missa cuiusvis toni, Missa sine nomine, Missa pange lingua, or Mass in B minor] (The
melody in the first line is from “L’homme armé.”) <ES>
Bonus
A popular slogan used against this candidate was "Vote for the crook, not for the fascist." For 10 points each,
[10] Jacques Chirac won a 2002 presidential election against this former leader of the far-right Front Nationale. This
leader's daughter, Marine, now leads his party after renaming it “Rassemblement nationale.”
ANSWER: Jean-Marie Le Pen
[10] The principle of choosing between two evils is illustrated by a myth involving these two creatures. Odysseus
had to choose one of these two sea monsters to pass by on his way back to Ithaca. Name both.
ANSWER: Scylla and Charybdis
[10] "Scylla and Charybdis" is the title of Episode 9 of this novel. At the beginning of this novel, Buck Mulligan
shaves in a Martello Tower.
ANSWER: Ulysses <FJ>
20.
This author’s stories “Gregor” and “A beneficiary” appear in her collection Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth
Black. In a novel by this author, a businessman buys a farm as a tax deductible expense; that farm is run by
the foreman Jacobus. This author wrote about Baasie’s adoption after his father, Lionel, dies in prison. In
that novel, Katya is visited by her stepdaughter (*) Rosa. In another novel by this author, the Smales family flees
in a yellow pickup truck driven by their Black former servant. For 10 points, name this South African author of The
Conservationist, Burger’s Daughter, and July’s People.
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer <TK>
Bonus
Legalists such as Shen Buhai argued that if the laws are organized well enough, the leader can abide by this
principle. For 10 points each,
[10] Name this principle in Chinese philosophy often translated as "non-action."
ANSWER: wu wei
[10] Wu wei is central to this Chinese philosophical school whose central text was written by Laozi.
ANSWER: Daoism
[10] Daoist sects absorbed some of the tenets of this philosophy after its decline in the Qin dynasty. Along with
avoiding fatalism, adherents to this philosophy advocated for “impartial care.”
ANSWER: Mohism <ES>